Hi all,
     A small correction in question 2, what is the probability that only
four of the letters are placed in the correct envelopes.

    One more correction this time in question 6, initially there is a
conversation between sally and sam, sally asks sam "Is your house number
a
perfect square?" he answers, then she asks "Is it >50?", he answers
again.
Then she thinks that now she knows Sam's house number, being unaware of
the
fact that Sam has answered only the second question truthfully.

    Here is question 8
Three teams A,B,C play 3 games(A Vs B,A Vs C,B Vs C). The partial details
of
the results are given here:
Team  Games  W    L    T   Goals Scored for    Goals Scored against
A          2        _     _    1                 0
1
B          2         1    _    _                 1
2
C          2        _     _    _                 _
_

Conditions:
In each game the winning team is gets two points and the losing team gets
no
points. In case a game is tied then each team gets 1 point. So the total
no.
of points is equal to the total no.of games played by all the three teams
that is 6. And it is also evident that total no.of goals scored for by
the
three teams is equal to the total no.of goals scored against by the three
teams.
Now find out the scores of all the three matches.(A - B, A-C, B - C)
                             A        B        C
Ans:  1st game       0        1
         2nd              0                    0
         3rd                         0          2

The 5th question is:
A pound of tea contains twice the amount of caffine that a pound of
coffee
contains. 40 cups of coffee can be prepared using a pound of coffee. 160
cups of tea can be prepared using a pound of tea. A 12-ounce can of cola
contains one fourth the amount of caffine a cup of coffee contains.
A) What amount of caffine a cup of tea contains compared to a cup of
coffee?
B} What amount of caffine a cup of tea contains in comparision with a
12-ounce can of cola?

The 3rd question is:
At What time after midnight is the no.of minutes since midnight is 9
times
the no.of minutes before noon?
