Prologue

                   Saturday, April 27, 1991

 KING CHARLES III made the final decision.
  The election had duly taken place as decreed by royal proclarnation. The
  polling booths had been closed, the votes counted, the computers turned
  off-, and the experts and amateurs alike had collapsed into their beds
  in disbelief when they had heard the final result.
  The new King had been unable to sleep that Friday night while he
  considered yet again all the advice that had been offered to him by his
  courtiers during the past twenty-four hours. The choice he had been left
  with was by no means simple, considering how recently he had ascended the
  throne.
  A few minutes after Big Ben had struck 6 A.M., the morning papers were
  placed in the corridor outside his bedroom. The King slipped quietly out
  of bed, put on his dressing gown and smiled at the startled footman when
  be opened the door. The King gathered up the papersin his arms and took
  them through to the morning room in order that the Queen would not be
  disturbed. Once he had settled comfortably into his favorite chair, he turned
 to the editorial pages. Only one subject was wortfiy of their attention that
 day. The Fleet Street editors had all corne to the same conclusion. The
 result of the election could not have been closer, and the new King had been
 placed in a most delicate position as to whom he should call to be his first
 Prime Minister.
  Most of the papers went on to give the King their personal advice on whom
  he should consider according to their own political affiliations. The
  London Times alone offered no such opinion, but suggested merely that His
  Majesty would have to show a great deal of courage and fortitude in facing
  his first constitutional crisis if the monarchy was to remain credible in
  a modern world.
  The fort y-three-year-old King dropped the papers on the floor by the side
  of his chair and considered once again the problems of which man to select.
  What a strange game politics was, he considered. Only a short time ago
  there had been clearly three men to consider, and then suddenly one of them
  was no longer a contender. The two men remaining-who he suspected had also
  not slept that night--could not have been more different~and yet in some
  ways they were so alike. They had both entered the House of Commons in 1964
  and had then conducted glittering careers in their twentyfive years as
  members of Parliament. Between them they had held the portfolios of Trade,
  Defense, the Foreign Office and the Exchequer before being elected to lead
  their respective parties.
  As Prince of Walcs, the King had watched them both from the sidelines and
  grown to admire their different contributions to public life. On a personal
  level, he had to admit, he had always liked one while respecting the other.
  The King checked his watch and then pressed a bell on the table by his
  side. A valet dressed in a royal blue uniform entered the room as if he had
  been waiting out-
  
                2
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 side the dooi all night. He began to lay out the King's morning suit as
 the monarch went into the adjoining room where his bath had already been
 drawn. When the King returned he dressed in silence before taking a seat
 at a small table by the window to be served breakfast. He ate allone. He
 had left firm instructions that none of the children were to disturb him.
  At eight o'clock he retired to his study to listen to the morning news.
  There was nothing fresh to report. The commentators were now only waiting
  to discover which man would be invited to the~palacc to kiss hands.
  At nine-fifteen he picked up the phone. "Would you come up now, please,"
  was all he said. A moment later the Kini 's private sccretary entered the
  room. He bowed, but ,,aid nothing, as he could see the monarch was
  preoccupied. It was several moments before the King spoke.
 "I have mlide my dccision," he said quietly.

 3
     PART ONE

The
Backbenchers

 1964-1966
               I

 IF CHARLES GURNEY HAMPTON had been born nine minutes earlier he would have
 become an earl and inherited a castle in Scotland, twenty-two thousand
 acres in Somerset and a thriving merchant bank in the city of London.
  It was to be several years before young Charles worked out the full
  significance of coming second in life's first race.
  His twin brother, Rupert, barely came through the ordeal, and in the
  years that followed contracted not only the usual childhood illnesses but
  managed to add scarlet fever, diphtheria and meningitis, causing his
  mother, Lady Hampton, to fear for his survival.
  Charles, on the other hand, was a survivor, and had inherited enough
  Hampton ambition for both his brother and himself. Only a few years
  passed before those who came into contact with the brothers for the first
  time mistakenly assumed Charles was the heir to the earldom.
  As the years went by, Charles's father tried desperately to discover
  something at which Rupert might triumph over his brother-and failed. When
  they were

                7
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 eight, the two boys were sent away to prep school at Summerficids, where
 generations of Hamptons had been prepared for the rigors of Eton. During his
 first month at the school Charles was voted class president, and no one
 hindered his advance en route to becoming head of the student body at the
 age of twelve, by which time Rupert was looked upon as "Hampton Minor." Both
 boys proceeded to Eton, where in their first term Charles beat Rupert at
 every subject in the classroom, outrowed him on the river and nearly killed
 him in the boxing ring.
 Whe
   ,n in 1947 their grandfather, the thirteenth Earl of Bridgewater, finally
   expired, the sixteen-year-old Rupert became Viscount Hampton while Charles
   inherited a meaningless prefix.
  The Honorable Charles Hampton felt angry every time fie heard his brother
  deferentially addressed by strangers as "My Lord."
  At Eton, Charles continued to excel, and ended his school day-; as
  President of Pop--the exclusive Eton club-bef~)re being offered a place at
  Christ Church, Oxford, to read history. Rupert covered the same years
  without making one honor roll. At the age of eighteen the young viscount
  returned to the family estate in Somerset to pass the rest of his days as
  a landowner. No one destined to inherit twenty-two thousand acres could be
  described as a fai mer.
  At Oxford, Charles, free of Rupert's shadow, progressed with the air of a
  man who found the university something of an anticlimax. He would spend his
  weekdays reading the history of his relations and the weekenas at house
  parties or riding to hounds. As no one had suggested f'or one moment that
  Rupert should enter the worldof high finance, it was assumed that once
  Charles had graduated Oxford, he would succeed his father at Hampton's
  Bank, first as a director and then in time as

                8
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 its chairman-although it would be Rupert who would eventually inherit the
 family shareholding.
  This assumption changed, however, when one evening the Honorable Charles
  Hampton was drag ed to
                            og the Oxford Union by a nubile undergraduate
                            from Somerville, who demanded that he listen
                            to Sir Winston Churchill, who was making a
                            rare appearance to debate the motion "I'd
                            rather be a commoner than a lord,"
  Charles sat at the back of a hall packed with eager students mesmerized
  by the elder statesman's performance. Never once did he take his eyes off
  the great war leader during his witty and powerful speech, although what
  kept flashing across his mind was the realization that, but for an
  accident of birth, Churchill would have been the ninth Duke of
  Marlborough. Here was a man who had dominated the world stage for three
  decades and then turned down every hereditary honora grateful nation
  could offer, including the title of Duke of London.
  Charles never allowed himself to be referred to by his title again. From
  that moment, his ultimate ambition was above aiere titles.

  Another under-raduate who listened to Churchill that night was also
  considering his own future. But tie did not view the proceedings crammed
  between his fcilow students at the back of the crowded hall. The tall
  young man dressed in white tie and tails sat alone in a larye chair on
  a raised platform, for such was his right as President of the Oxford
  Union. His natural good looks had played no part in his election because
  women still were unable to become menibers.
  Although Simon Kerslake was the firstborn, he had otherwise few of
  Charles Hampton's advantages. The only son of a family solicitor, he had
  come to appreciate how much his father had denied himself to ensure that

                9
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 his son should remain at the local public school. Simon's father had died
 during his son's last year at school, leaving his widow a small annuity
 and a magnificent Maekinley grandfather clock. Simon's mother sold the
 clock a week after the funeral in order that her son could complete his
 final year with all the "extras" the other boys took for granted. She also
 hoped that it would give Simon a better chance of going on to university.
  From the first day he could walk, Simon had always wanted to outdistance
  his peers. The Americans would have described him as an "achiever," while
  many of his conternporaries thought of him as pushy, or even arrogant,
  according to their aptitude forjealousy. During his last term at Lancing,
  Simon was passed over for Head of School, and forever found himself
  unable to forgive the headmaster his lack of foresight. Later that year,
  he narrowly missed a place at Oxford's Magdalen College. It was a
  decision Simon was unwilling to accept.
  In the same mail, Durham University offered him a scholarship, which he
  rejected by return post. "Future Prime Mipisters aren't educated at
  Durham," he informed his mother.
  "How about Cambridge?" inquired his mother lightly'.
 "No political tradition," replied Simon.
  "But if there is no chance of being offered a place at Oxford, surely ...
  T'
  "That's not what I said, Mother," replied the young man. "I shall be an
  undergraduate at Oxford by the first day ofterm."
  After eighteen years of improbable victories, Mrs. Kerslake had learned
  to stop asking her son, "How will you manage that?"
  Some fourteen days before the start of the Christmas term at Oxford,
  Simon booked himself into a small guest house just off the Ifiley Road.
  On a trestle table in the corner of lodgings he intended to make
  permanent, he 10
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 wrote out a list of all the Oxford colleges, then divided them into five
 columns, planning to visit three each morning and three each afternoon
 until his que3tion had been answered positively by a resident tutor for
 admissions: "Have you accepted any freshmen for this year who are now
 unable to take up their places?"
  It was on the fourth afternoon, just as doubt was beginning to set in and
  Simon was wondering if after all he would have to travel to Cambridge the
  following week, that he received the first affirmative reply.
  The tutor for admissions at Worcester College removed the glasses from
  the end of his nose and stared up at the tall young man with the mop of
  dark hEdr falling over his forehead. The young man's intense brown eyes
  remained fixed on the tutor for admissions. Alan Brown was the
  twenty-second don Simon Kerslake had visited in four days.
  "Yes," he replied. "It so happens that, sadly, a young man from
  Nottin-ham High School, who had been offered a pla~,e here, was killed
  in a motorcycle accident last month."
  "What course-what subject was he going to read?" Simon's words were
  unusually faltering. He prayed it wasn't chemistry, architecture or
  classics. Alan Brown flicked through a rotary index on his desk,
  obviously enjoying the little cross-examination. He peeied at the card
  in front of him. "History," he announced.
  Simon's heartbeat reached one hundred and twenty. "I just missed a place
  at Magdalen to read politics, philosoph, and economics," he said. "Would
  you consider y
 me for the vacancy?"
  The older man was unable to hide a smile. He had never, in twenty-four
  years, come across such i request.
  "Full name?" he said, replacing his glasses as if the serious business
  of the meeting had now begun.
 "Simon John Kerslake."
Dr. Brown picked up the telephone by his side and diI I
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 aled a number. "Nigel?" he said. "It's Alan Brown here. Did you ever
 consider offering a man called Kerslake a place at Magdalen?"
  Mrs. Kerslake was not surprised when her son went on to be President of the
  Oxford Union. After all, she teased, wasn't it just another stepping-stone
  on the path to Prime Minister- -Gladstone, Asquith ... Kerslake?

  Ray G~)uld was born in a tiny, windowless room above his father's butcher
  shop in Leeds. For the first nine years of his life he shared that room
  with his ailing grandmother, until she died at the age of sixty-one.
  Ray's close proxinnity to the old woman who had lost her husband in the
  Great War at first appeared romantic to him. fie would listen enraptured as
  she told him stories of her hero husband in his smart khaki unif(-)rm--a
  uniform iiow folded neatly in her bottom drawer, but still displayed in the
  fading sepia photograph at the side of her bed. Soon, however, his grand-
  mother's stories filled Ray with sadness, as fie became aware that she had
  been a widow for nearly thirty years. Finally she seemed a tragic figure as
  he realized how little she had experienced of the world beyond that cramped
  room in which she was surrounded by all her possessions and a yellowed
  envelope containing five hundred irredeemable war bonds.
  There had been no purpose in Ray's grandmother's making a will, for all he
  inherited was the room. Overnight it ceased to be a double bedroom and
  became a study, full of ever-changing library books and schoolbooks, the
  former often returned late, using up Ray's meager pocket money in fines.
  But as each school report was brought home, it became increasingly apparent
  to Ray's father that he would not be extending the sign above the butcher
  shop to proclaim "Gould and Son."
  At eleven, Ray won the top scholarship to Roundhay Grammar School. Wearing
  his first pair of long trou-
  
               12
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 sers--shortened several inches by his mother-and hom-rimmed glasses that
 didn't quite fit, he set off for the opening day at his new school. Ray's
 mother hoped there were ol ' her boys as thin and spotty as her son, and
 that his wavy red hair would not cause him to be continually teased.
  By the end of his first term, Ray was surprised to find he was far ahead
  of his contemporaries, so far, in fact, that the headmaster considered
  it prudent to PL:t 'him Up a form "to stretch the lad a little," as he
  explained to Ray's parents. By the end of that year, one spent mainly in
  the classroom, Ray managed to come in third in the class, and first in
  Latin and English. Only when it came to selecting teams for any sport did
  Ray find he was last in anything. However brilliant his mind miaht have
  been, it never seemed to coordinate with his body.
  In any case, the only competition he care~, for that year was the middle
  school essay prize. The winner of the prize would be required to read his
  entry to the assembled pupils and parents on Speech Day, Even before he
  handed in his entry, Ray rehearsed his efforts out loud several 'Limes
  in the privacy of his study- Dedroom, fearing he would not be properly
  prepared if lie waited until the winner was announced.
  Ray's form master had told all his pupils that the subject of the essay
  could be of their own choosing, but that they sbould try to recall some
  experience that had been unique to them. After reading Ray's account of
  his grandmother's life in the little roorn above the butcher shop, the
  form master had no inclination to pick up another script. After he had
  dutifully struggled through the remainder of' the entries, he did not
  hesitate in recommendina Gould's essay for the prize. The only reserva-
  tion, he admitted to Ray, was the choice of title. Ray thanked hini for
  the advice but the title remained intact.
  On the niorning of Speech Day, the school assembly hall was packed with
  nine hundred pupils and their par-
  
               13
         FIRSF AMONG EQUALS

 ents. After the headmaster had delivered his speech and the applause had
 died down, he announced, "I shall now call uPon the winner of the prize
 essay competition to deliver his entry: Ray Gould."
  Ray left his place in the hall and marched confidently up onto thi~. stage.
  Ile stared down at the two thousand expectant taces but showed no sign of
  apprehension, partly because he found it difficult to see beyond the third
  row. When he announced the title of his essay, some of the younger children
  began to snigger, causing Ray to stumble through his first few lines. But
  by the tirrte hie had reached the last page the packed hall was still, and
  after he had completed the final paragraph he received the first standing
  ovation of his career.
  Twelve-year-old Ray Gould left the stage to rejoin his
 parents at their seats. His mother's head was bowed but
 he could still see teais trickling down her cheeks. His fa
 tber was tr ' ving not to look too proud. Even when Ray
 was seated, the applause continued, so he, too, lowered
 his head to stare at the title of his prize-winning essay:
 "The First Changes P. Will Make When I Become Prime
 Minister."

 14
                2

                Thursday, December 10, 1964

 MR. SPEAKER ROSE and surveyed the Commons. He tugged at his long black
 silk gown, then nervously tweaked the full-bottomed wig that covered his
 balding head. The House had almost gotten out of control during a
 particularly rowdy session of Prime Minister's Questions, and he was
 delighted to see the cleck reach three-thirty. Time to pass on to the next
 business of the day.
  He stood shifting from foot to foot, waiting for the five hundred-odd
  members of Parliament present to settle down before he intoned solemnly,
  "Members desinno, to take the oath." The packed assembly switched its
  gaze from Mr. Speaker toward the far end of the chamber, like a crowd
  watching a tennis match.
  The newly elected member of Parliament stood at the entrance of the House
  of Commons. At six feel four, he looked like a man born with the Tory
  party in mind. His patrician head was set on an aristocratic frame, a
  mane

               15
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 offair hair combed meticulously into place. Dressed in a dark-gray,
 double-breasted suit, with a Regimental Guards tie of maroon and blue,
 flanked by his proposer and seconder, Charles Hampton took four paces
 forward. Like well-drilled guardsmen, they stopped and bowed, then advanced
 toward the long table that stood in front of the Speaker's chair between the
 two front benches. Charles was surprised at how small the chamber was in
 reality: the Government and Opposition benches faced each other a mere
 sword's length apart. Charles recalled that historically a sword's length
 had once insufed the safety of those bitter rivals who sat opposite each
 other.
  Leaving his sponsors in his wake, he passed down the long table, stepping
  over the legs of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary before being
  handed the oath by the Clerk of the House.
  He held the little card in his right hand and pronounced the words as
  firmly as if they had been his marriage vows.
  "l,Charles Hampton, do swear that I will be faithful, and bear true
  allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, her heirs and successors
  according to law, so help me God."
  "Hear, hear," rose from his colleagues as the new member ofParliamerit
  leaned over to inscribe the Test Roll, a parchment folded into book shape.
  Charles proceeded toward the Speaker's chair, when he stopped and bowed.
  "Welcome to the House, Mr. Hampton," said the Speaker, shaking his hand. "I
  hope you will serve this place for many years to come."
  "Thank you, Mr. Speaker," said Charles, and bowed for a final time before
  continuing on to the small area behind the Speaker's chair. He had carried
  out the little ceremony exactly as the Tory Chief Whip had rehearsed it
  with him in the long corridor outside his office.

               16
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Congratulations on your splendid victory, Charles," said the former Prime
  Minister and now Leader of the Opposition, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, who also
  shook him warmly by the hand. "I know you have a great deal to offer to the
  Conservative Party and your country."
  "Thank you," replied the new MP, who, after waiting for Sir Alec to return
  to take his place on the Opposition front bench, made his way up the aisle
  steps to find a place in the back row of the long green benches.
  For the next two hours Charles Hampton followed the proceedings of the
  House with a mixture of awe and excitement.
  He marveled at the simplicity and justice of the parliamentary system in
  lively debate before him. Labour versus Tory, Government versus Opposition,
  the Minister on the 6ench and his Shadow Minister on the opposite bench.
  And as with two soccer teams, Charles knew every position was
  covered--Government Minister continually scrutinized by his Shadow Minister
  in the Opposition. He also knew that if the Conservatives won the next
  election, the Shadow team was well prepared to take over from the outgoing
  Labour Government.
  Glancing up at the Strangers' Gallery, he saw his wife, Fiona,, his father,
  the fourteenth Earl of Bridgewater, and his brother, the Viscount Hampton,
  peering down at him with pride. Surely no one could now be in any doubt as
  to which Hampton should have inherited the family title. For the first time
  in his life, he had found something that wasn't his by birthright or by
  effortless conquest.
 Charles settled back on the first rung of the ladder.

  Raymond Gould stared down at the invitation. He had never seen the inside
  of Number 10 Downing Street. During the last thirteen years of Conservative
  rule few Labourites had. He passed the embossed card across the breakfast
  table to his wife.

               17
         FIRs-r AMONG EQUALS

  "Should I accept or refuse, Ray9" she asked in her broad Yorkshire
  accent.
  She was the only person who still called him Ray, and even her attempts
  at humor now annoyed him. The Greek tragedians had based their drama on
  "the fatal flaw," and he had no doubt what his had been.
  He had met Joyce at a dance given by the nurses of Leeds General
  Hospital. He hadn't wanted to go but a second-year undergraduate friend
  from Roundhay convinced him it would make an amusing break. At school he
  had shown little Interest in girls, and, as his mother kept reminding
  him, there would be occasion enough for that sort of thing once he had
  taken his degree. When he became an undergraduate he felt certain that
  he was the only virgin left at the university.
  He had ended up sitting alone in the comer of a room decorated with
  wilting balloons, sipping disconsolately at a Coke through a bent straw.
  Whenever his school friend turned around from the dance floor----each
  time with a different partner-Raymond would smile broadly back. With his
  National Health spectacles tucked away in an inside pocket, he couldn't
  always be certain he was smiling at the right person. He began
  contemplating at what hour he could possibly leave without having to
  admit ithe evening had been a total disaster. He would have been
  frightened by her overture if it hadn't been for that broad familiar
  accent.
 "You at the University as well?"
  "Aswell as what?" he asked, without looking directly at her.
 "Aswell as your friend," she said.
  "Yes," he replied, looking up at a girl he guessed was about his age.
 "I'm from Bradford."
  "I'm from Leeds," he admitted, aware as the seconds passed that his face
  was growing as red as his hair.
 "You don't have much of an accent, considering."

               18
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 That pleased him.
 "My name Is Joyce." she volunteered.
 "Mine's Ray," he said.
 "Like to dance?"
  He wanted to tell her that he had rarely been on a dance floor in his
  life, but he didn't have the courage. Like a puppct, he found himself
  standing up and being guided by her toward the dancers. So much for his
  assumption that he was one of nature's leaders.
  Once they were on the dance floor he looked at her properly for the first
  time. She wasn't half bad, any normal Yorkshire boy might have admitted.
  She was about five feet seven, and her auburn hair tied up in a ponytail
  matched the dark-brown eyes that had a little too much makeup around
  them. She wore pink lipstick the same color as her short skirt, from
  which emerged two very attractive legs. They looked even more attractive
  when she twirled to the music of the four-piece student band. Raymond
  discovered that if he twirled Joyce very fast he could see the tops of
  her stockings, and he remained on the dance floor far longer than he
  would even have thought possible. After the quartet had put their in-
  struments away, Joyce kissed him goodnight before Ray went back to his
  small room above the butcher shop.
  The following Sunday, in an attempt to gain the upper hand, he took Joyce
  rowing on the Aire, but his performance there was no better than his
  dancing, and everything on the river overtook him, including a hardy
  swimmer. lie watched out of the side of his eyes for a mocking laugh, but
  Joyce only smiled and chatted about missing Bradford and wanting to
  return home to be a nurse. Ray wanted to explain to her that he longed
  to escape Leeds. He couldn't wait to travel to London. But he also knew
  he didn't want to leave this pretty girl behind. When he eventually
  returned the boat, Joyce invited him back to her boardinghouse for tea.
  He went scarlet

               19
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 .is they passed her landlady, and Joyce hustled him up the wom stone
 staircase to her little room.
  Ray sat on the end of the narrow bed while Joyce made two inilkless mugs
  of tea. After they had both pretended to drink, she sat beside him, her
  hands in her lap. He found himself listening intently to an ambulance
  siren as it faded away in the distance. She leaned over and kissed him,
  taking one of his hands and placing it on her knee.
  She parted his lips and their tongues touched-, he found it a peculiar
  sensation, an arousing one; his eyes remained closed as she gently led
  him through each new experience, until he was unable to stop himself
  committing what he felt sure his mother had once described as a mortal.
  sin.
  "It will be easier qext time," she said shyly, maneuvering herself from
  the naFrow bed to sort out the crumpled clothes spread across the floor.
  She was right: he wanted her again in less thaa an hour, and this time
  his eyes remained wide open.
  It was another six months before Joyce hinted at the future, and by then
  Ray was bored with her and had his sights set on a bright little
  mathematician in her final ' he r,
 year. F nathematician hailed from Surrey.
  Just at the time when Ray was summing up enough courage to let her kaow
  the affair was over, Joyce told him she was pregnant. His father would
  have taken a meat ax to him had 'lie sug ested an illegal abortion. His
  mother was only relieved that she was a Yorkshire girl.
  Ray and Joyce werernarried at St. Mary's in Bradford during the long
  vacation. When the wedding photos were developed, Ray looked so
  distressed, and Joyce so happy, that they re~embled father and daughter
  rather than husbaid and wife. After a reception in the church hall the
  newly niarried couple traveled down to Dover to catch the night ferry.
  Their first night as Mr. and Mrs. Gould. was a disaster. Ray turned out
  to be a particu-
  
               20
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 larly bad sailor. Joyce only hoped that Paris would prove to be
 memorable--and it was. She had a miscarriage on the second night of their
 honeymoon.
  "Prot.)ably caused by all the excitement," his mother said on their
  return. "Still, you can always have another, can't you? And this time
  folk won't be able to call it a little . . ." she checked herself.
  Ray showed no interest in havin- another. He completed lus Erst-class
  honors degree in law at Leeds and then moved to London, as planned, to
  complete his studies at the bar. After only a few months in the me-
  tropolis, Leeds faded from his memory, and by the end of his two-year
  course Ray had been accepted at a fashionable London chambers to become
  a much-soughtafterjunior counsel. From that moment he rarely mentioned
  his North of England roots to his carefully cultivated new circle of
  society friends, and those comrades who addressed him as Ray received a
  sharp "Raymond" for their familiarity.
  The only exception Raymond made to this rule was when it served his
  budding political career. Leeds North had chosen Raymond to be their
  Labour candidate for Parliament from a field of thirty-seven. Yorkshire
  folk like people who stay at home, and Raymond had been quick to point
  out to the selection committee, in an exaggerated Yorkshire accent, that
  he had been educated at Routadhay Grammar School on the fringes of the
  constituency and that he had refused a scholarship to Cambridge,
  preferring to continue his education at Leeds University.
  Ten years had passed since the Goulds' memorable honeymoon, and Raymond
  had long since accepted that he was tethered to Joyce for life. Although
  she was only thirty-two, she already needed to cover those once-slim legs
  that had first so attracted him.
  How could he be so punished for such a pathetic mistake? Raymond wanted
  to ask the gods. How mature he

               21
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 had thought he was; how immature he had turned out to be. Divorce made
 sense, but it would have meant the end of his political ambitions: no
 Yorkshire folk would have considered selecting a divorced man. Not to men-
 tion the problem that would create with his parents; after ten years of
 housing the young Goulds on their trips to Leeds, they had come to adore
 their daughterin-law. To be fair, it hadn't all been a disaster, he had to
 admit that the locals adored her as well. During the election six weeks
 before she had mixed with the trade unionists and their frightful wives far
 better than he had ever managed to do, and he had to acknowledge that she
 had been a major factor in his winning the Leeds seat by over nineteen
 thousand votes. He wondered how she could sound so sincere the whole time;
 it never occurred to him that it was natural.
  "Why don't you buy yourself a new dress for Downing Street?" Raymond said
  as they rose from the breakfast table. She smiled; he had not volunteered
  such a suggestion for as long as she could remember. Joyce had no illusions
  about her husband and his feelings for her, but hoped that eventually he
  would realize she could help him achieve his unspoken ambition.
  On the night of the reception at Downing Street Joyce made every effort to
  look her best. She had spent the morning at Marks and Spencer searching for
  an outfit appropriate for the occasion, finally returning to a suit she had
  liked the moment she had walked into the store. It was not the perfect fit
  but the sales assistant assured Joyce "that madam looked quite sensational
  in it." She only hoped that Ray's remarks would be half as flattering. By
  the time she reached home, she realized she had no accessories to match its
  unusual color.
  Raymond was late returning from the Commons and was pleased to find Joyce
  ready when he leaped out of the bath. He bit back a derogatory remark about
  the incongruity of her new suit with her old shoes. As they 22
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 drove toward Westminster, he rehearsed the names of every member of the
 Cabinet with her, making Joyce repeat them as if she were a child.
  The air was cool and crisp that night so Raymond parked his Volkswagen
  in New Palace Yard and they strolled across Whitehall together to Number
  10. A solitary policeman stood guard at the door of the Prime Minister's
  residence. Seeing Raymond approach, the officer banged the brass knocker
  once and the door was opened for the young member and his wife.
  Raymond and Joyce stood awkwardly in the hall as if they were waiting
  outside a headmaster's study until eventually they were directed to the
  first floor. They walked sfowly up the staircase, which turned out to be
  less grand than Raymond had anticipated, passing photographs of former
  Prime Ministers. "Too many Tories," muttered Raymond as he passed
  Chamberlain, Churchill, Eden, Macmillan and Home, with Attlee the only
  framed compensation.
  At the top of the stairs stood the short figure of Harold Wilsom, pipe
  in mouth, waiting to welcome his guests. Raymond was about to introduce
  his wife when the Prime Minister said, "How are you, Joyce? I'm so glad
  you could inake it."
  "Make it? I've been looking forward to the occasion all week." Her
  frankness made Raymond wince. He failed to notice that it made Wilson
  chuckle.
  Raymond chatted with the Prime Minister's wife about her recent book of
  poetry until she turned away to greet the next guest. fie then moved off
  into the drawing room and was soon talking to Cabinet Ministers, trade-
  union leaders and their wives, always keeping a wary eye on Joyce, who
  seemed engrossed in conversation with the general secretary of the Trades
  Union Council.
  Raymond moved on to the American ambassador, who was telling Jamie
  Sinclair, one of the new intake from Scotland, how much he had enjoyed
  the Edin23
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 burgh Festival that summer. Raymond envied Sinclair the relaxed clubable
 manner that was the stamp of his aristocratic family. He interrupted their
 flow of conversation awkwardly. "I was interested to read Johnson's latest
 communiqu& on Vietnam, and I must confess that the escalation . . ."
  ... kAlhat's he interrogating you about?" asked a voice
 from behind him. Raymond turned to find the Prime
 Minister by his side. "I think I should warn you, Am
 bassador," continued Mr. Wilson, "that Raymond
 Gould is one of the brighter efforts we've produced this
 time, and quite capable of quoting you verbatim years
 afteryou've forgotten what you thought you said."
  "It's not that long ago they used to say the same sort of thing about
  you," the ambassador replied.
  The Prime Minister chuckled, slapped Raymond on the shoulder and moved
  on to another group of guests.
  Raymond rankled at the condescension he imagined he'd heard in the Prime
  Minister's tone, only too aware that his nervousness had led him to
  commit a social gaffe. As in the past, his humiliation turned quickly
  into anger against himself. He knew that the Prime Minister's words had
  contained some genuine admiration, for if Raymond had gained any
  reputation in his first six weeks in Parliament, it was as one of the
  Labour Party's intellectuals. But he felt the familiar fear that he would
  ultimately fail to turn his mental acuity into the currency of politics.
  Whereas some of his peers among the new intake of N4Ps, inen like Simon
  Kerslake, had delivered niaiden speeches that niade the veterans in
  Parliament sit up and take notice, Raymond's first effort had not been
  well received; reading nervously from a prepared mainuseript, he had been
  unable to make the House hang on his every word.
  Rooted to the spot, feeling the familiar blush rise to his face, Raymond
  was determined to remain calm. His career, he assured himself for the
  umpteenth time,

               24
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 would simply have to follow an unusual path. He had already begun to work
 to that end, and if he could pull it off, few members would be able to
 ignore or challenge him.
  Reassured, Raymond moved on to be introduced to several people about whom
  he had only read in the past; he was surprised to find that they treated
  him as an equal. At the end of the evening, after they had stayed what
  he later told Joyce had been a little too long, he drove his wife back
  to their home on Lansdowne Road.
  On the way he talked nonstop about all the people he had met, what he
  thought of them, describing their jobs, giving her his impressions,
  almost as if she hadn't been there.

  They had seen little of each other during Simon Kerslake's first six
  weeks in Parliament, which made tonight even more special. The Labour
  Party might have returned to power after thirteen years, but with a
  majority of only four, it was proving almost impossible for Simon to get
  to bed much before midnight. He couldn't see any easing of the pressure
  until one party had gained a sensibleworking majority, and that would not
  happen until there was another General Election. But what Simon feared
  most, having won his own constituency with the slimmest of majorities,
  was that such an election would unseat him, and that he might end up with
  one of the shortest political careers on record.
  That was why Lavinia was so good for him. He enjoyed the company of the
  tall, willowy girt who couldn't pronounce her Ws, and he was angered by
  the gossip that he knew surrounded their relationship.
  True, his political career had been off to a slow start before he'd met
  Lavinia Maxwell- Harrington. After Oxford, throughout his two years of
  National Service with the Sussex Light Infantry, he'd never lost sight
  of his loal. When he sought a position at the BBC as a gen25
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 eral trainee, his natural ability to shine at interviews secured him
 thejob, but he used every spare moment to advance his political ambitions:
 he quickly joined several Tory organizations, writing pamphlets and speak-
 ing at. weekend conferences. However, he'd never been taken seriously as
 a prospective candidate until 1959, when, during the General Election, his
 hard work earned him the post of personal assistant to the party chairman.
  During the campaign he had met Lavinia MaxwellHarrington at a dinner
  party held at Harrington Hall in honorof his chairman. Lavinia's father,
  Sir Rufus Maxwell-Harrington, had also been, "sometime in the dim distant
  past," as Lavinia described it, chairman of the Tory Party.
  When the Conservatives had been returned to power Simon found himselt'a
  frequent weekend guest at Harrington. Hall. By the time the 1964 election
  had been called, Sir Rufus had passed Simon for membership of the
  Ca.rlton-the exclusive Conservative club in St. Jarnes--and rumors of an
  imminent engagement between Simon and Lavinia were regularly hinted at
  in the gossip columns of the London press.
  In the surnmer of 1964, Sir Rufus's influence had once again proved
  decisive, and Simon was offered the chance to defend the marginal
  constituency of Coventry Central. Simon retained the seat for the Tories
  at the General Election by a slender nine hundred and seventy-ODe votes.
  Simon parked his MGB outside Number 4 Chelsea Square and checked his
  watch. He cursed at being once again a few minutes late, although he
  realized Lavinia was well versed in the voting habits of politicians. He
  pushed back the mop of brown hair that perpetually fell over his
  forehead, buttoned up his new blazer and straightened his tie. He cursed
  again as he pulled the little brass bell knob. He had forgotten to pick
  up the roses

               26
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 he had ordered for Lavinia, although he had passed the shop on the way.
  The butler answered the door and Simon was shown to the sitting room to
  find Lavinia and Lady MaxwellHarrington discussing the forthcoming
  Chelsea Ball.
  "Oh, Simon darling," began Lavinia, turning her slim body toward him.
  "How super to see you."
  Simon smiled. fie still hadn't quite got used to the language used by
  girls who lived between Sloane Square and Kensington.
  "I (to hope you've managed to escape from that dreadful place for the
  rest of the evening," she said.
  "Absolutely," Simon found himself saying, "and I've even captured a table
  at the Caprice."
  "Oh, goody," said Lavinia. "And are they expecting you to return and vote
  for some silly bill on the hour of ten?"
  "No, I'm yours all night," said Simon, regretting the words as soon as
  he had said them. He caught the coot expression on the face of Lady
  Maxwell-Harrington and cursed for a third time.

 27
               3

 CHARLES HAMPTON drove his Daimler from the Commons to his father's bank
 in the city. He still thought of Hampton's of Threadneedle Street as his
 father's bank although for two gererations the family had been only
 minority sb.areholders, with Charles himself in possession ofa mere 2
 percent of the stock. Nevertheless, as his brother Rupert showed no desire
 to represent the farnily intefests, the 2 percent guaranteed Charles a
 place on the board and an income sufficient to insure that his paltry
 parlianientary salary of f 1,750 a year was adequately supplemented.
  Froin the day Charles had first taken his place on the board of
  Hampton's, he had had no doubt that the new chairman. Derek Spencer,
  considered him a dangerous rivai. Spenccr had lobbied to have Rupert
  replace his father upon the latter's retirement, and only because of
  Charles's insistence had Spencer failed to move the old earl to his way
  of thinking.
  When Charles went on to win his seat in Parliament, Spencer at once
  raised the problem that his burdensome responsibilities at the House
  would prevent him from carrying; out his day to day duties to the board.
  How-
  
               28
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ever, Charles was able to convince a majority of his fellow directors of
 the advantages of having someone from the board at Westminster, although
 the rules dictated that his private employment would have to cease if he
 was ever invited to be a Minister of the Crown.
  Charles left the Daimler in Hampton's courtyard. It amused him to
  consider that his parking space was worth twenty times the value of the
  car. The area at the front of Hampton's was a relic of his
  great-grandfather's day. The twelfth Ear[ of Bridgewater had insisted on
  an entrance large enough to allow a complete sweep for his coachand tour.
  That conveyance had long disappeared, to be replaced by twelve parking
  spaces for Hampton directors. Derek Spencer, despite all his
  grammar-school virtues, had never suggested that the land be used for any
  other purpose.
  The young girl seated at the reception desk abruptly stopped polishing
  her nails in time to say "Good morning, Mr. Charles," as he came through
  the revolving doors and disappeared into a waiting elevator. A few
  moments later Charles was seated behind a desk in his small oak-paneled
  office, a clean white memo pad in front of him. He pressed a button on
  the intercom and told his secretary that he did not want to be disturbed
  during the next hour.
  Every Conservative member of Parliament assumed that after his defeat in
  the election Sir Alec DouglasHome would soon step down as Leader of the
  Opposition. Now, in the spring of 1965, Charles knew he had to decide
  whose coattail to hang onto. While he remained in Opposition, his only
  hope was of being offered a junior Shadow post, but that could turn out
  to be the stepping-stone to becoming a Government Minister if the
  Conservatives won the next election. He faced the first major test of his
  career.
  Sixty minutes later the white pad had twelve names penciled on it, but
  ten already had lines drawn through 29
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 them. Only the names of Reginald Maudling and Edward Heath remained.
  Charles tore off the piece of paper and the indented sheet underri-eath and
  put them both through the shredder by the side of his desk. He tried to
  summon up some interest in the agenda for the bank's weekly board meeting;
  only or.e item, item seven, seemed to be of any importance. Just before
  eleven, he gathered up his papers and headed toward the boardroom. Most of
  his colleagues were already seated when Derek Spencer called item number I
  as the boardroom clock chimed the hour.
  During the ensuing predictable discussion on bank rates, the movement in
  metal prices, Eurobonds and client-investment policy, Charles's mind kept
  wandering back to the forthcoming Leadership election and the importance of
  backing the winner if he was to be quickly promoted frorn the back benches.
  By the time they reached item 7 on the agenda Charles had made tip his
  wind. Derek Spencer opened a discussion or, the proposed loans to Mexico
  and Poland, and most of' the board members agreed with him that the bank
  should participate in one, but not risk both.
  Charles's thoughts, however, were not in Mexico City or Warsaw. They were
  far nearer home, and when the chairman called for a vote, Charles didn't
  register.
 "Mexico or Poland, Charles? Which do you favor?"
 "Heath," he replied.
 "I beg, your pardon," said Derek Spencer.
  Charles snapped back from Westminster to Threadneedle Street to find
  everyone at the boardroom table staring at him. With the air of a man who
  had been giving the matter considej able thought, Charles said firmly,
  "Mexico," and added, "The great difference between the two countrie,, can
  best be gauged by their attitudes to repayment. Mexico might not want to
  repay, but Poland won't be able to, so why not limit our risks and back
  Mexico? If it comes to litigation I'd prefer to be against 30
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 someone who won't pay rather than someone who can't." The older members
 around the table nodded in agreement; the right son of Bridgewater was
 sitting on the board.
  When the meeting was over Charles joined his colleagues for lunch in the
  directors' dining room. A room containing two Hogarths, a Brueghel, a
  Goya and a Rembrandt-Just another reminder of his great-grandfather's
  ability to select winners--could distract even the most self-indulgent
  gourmet. Charles did not wait to make a decision between the Cheddar and
  the Stilton as he wanted to be back in the Commons for Question Time.
  On arriving at the House he immediately made his way to the smoking room,
  long regarded by the Tories as their preserve. There in the deep leather
  armchairs and cigar-laden atmosphere the talk was entirely of who would
  be Sir Alec Home's successor.
  Later that afternoon Charles returned to the Commons chaniber, He wanted
  to observe Heath and his Shadow team deal with Government amendments one
  by one. Heath was on his feet facing the Prime Minister, his notes oa the
  dispatch box in front of him.
  Charles was about to leave the chamber when Raymond Gould rose to move
  an amendment from the back benches. Charles remained alued to his seat.
  He had to
                0
 listen with grudging admiration as Raymond's intellectual grasp and force
 of argument easily compensated for his lack of oratorical skill. Although
 Gould was a cut above the rest of the new intake on the Labour benches,
 he didn't frighten Charles. Twelve generations of cunning and business
 acumen had kept large parts of Leeds in the hands of the Bridgewater
 family without the likes of Ra, mond Gould even being aware of it.
   Y
  Charles took supper in the members' dining room that night and sat in the
  center of the room at the large table occupied by Tory backbenchers.
  There was only one

               31
         FIRs'r AMONG EQUALS

 topic of conversation, and as the same two names kept emerging it was
 obvious that it was going to be a very close-run race.
  When Charles arrived back at his Eaton Square home after the ten olcloc~
  vote, his wife, Fiona, was already tucked up in bed reading Graham
  Greene's The Comedians.
 "They let you out early tonight."
  "Not too bad," said Charles, and began regaling her with how he had spent
  his day, before disappearing into the bathroom.
  Charles imagined he was cunning, but his wife, Lady Fiona Hampton, nde
  Campbell, only daughter of the Duke of Falkirk, was in a different
  league. She and Charles had been selected for each other by their grand-
  parents and neither had questioned or doubted the wisdom of the choice.
  Although Charles had squired numerous girlfriends before their marriage,
  he had always assumed he would return to Fiona. Charles's father, the
  fourteenth earl, had always maintained that the aristocracy was becoming
  far too lax and sentimental about love. "Women," he declared, "are for
  bearing children and insuring a continuation of the male line." The old
  earl became even more firm in his convictions when he was informed that
  Rupert showed little interest in the opposite sex and was rarely to be
  found in women's company.
  Fiona would never have dreamed of disagreeing with the old earl to his
  face and was herself delighted by the thought of giving birth to a son
  who would inherit the earldom. But despite enthusiastic and then
  contrived efforts Charles seemed unable to sire an heir. Fiona was
  assured by a Harley Street physician that there was no reason she could
  not bear children. The specialist had suggested that perhaps her husband
  pay the clinic a visit. She shook her head, knowing Charles would dis-
  
               32
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 miss such an idea out of hand, no matter how much he wanted a son.
  Fiona spent much of her spare time in their Sussex East constituency
  furthering Charles's political career. She had learned to live with the
  fact that theirs was not destined to be a romantic marriage and had
  almost resigned herself to its other advantages. Although many men
  confessed covertly and overtly that they found Fiona's elegant bearing
  attractive, she had either rejected their advances or pretended not to
  notice them.
  By the time Charles returned from the bathroom in his blue silk pajamas
  Fiona had formed a plan, but first she needed some questions answered.
 "Whom do you favor?"
  "It will be a close-run thing, but I spent the entire afternoon observing
  the serious candidates."
 "Did you come to any conclusions?" Fiona asked.
  "Heath and Maudling are the most likely ones, though to be honest I've
  never had a conversation with either of them that lasted for more than
  five minutes."
  "In that case we must turn disadvantage into advantage."
  "What do you mean, old girl?" Charles asked as he climbed into bed beside
  his wife.
  "Think back. When you were President of Pop at Eton, could you have put
  a name to any of the first-year boys?"
 "Certainly not," said Charles.
  "Exactly. And I'd be willing to bet that neither Heath nor Maudfing could
  put a name to twenty of the new intake on the Tory benches."
 "Where are you leading me, Lady Macbeth?"
  "No bloody hands will be needed for this killing. Simply, having chosen
  your Duncan, you volunteer to organize the new intake for him. If he
  becomes Leader, he's

               33
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 bound to feel it would be appropriate to select one or two new faces for his
 team."
 "You really are a Campbell."
  "Well, let's sleep on it," said Fiona, turning out the light on her side of
  the bed.
  Charles didn't sleep on it but lay restless most of the night turning over
  in his mind what she had said. When Fiona awoke the next morning she
  carried on the conversation as if there had been no break in between.
  "Better still," she continued, "before the man you choose announces he is
  a candidate, demand that he run on behalf of the new members."
 "Clever," said Charles.
 "Whom have you decided on?"
 "Heath," Charles replied without hesitation.
  "I'll back vour political judgment," said Fiona. "Just trust me wh~n it
  comes to tactics. First, we compose a letter."
  In dressing gowns, on the floor at the end of the bed, the two elegant
  figures drafted and redrafted a note to Edward Heath. At nine-thirty it was
  finally composed and sent around by hand to his rooms in Albany.
  The next morning Charles was invited to the small bachelor flat for coffee.
  They talked for over an hour and tile dzal was struck.
  Charles thought Sir Alec would announce his resignation in the late summer,
  which would give him eight to ten weeks to carry out a campaign. Fiona
  typed out a list of all the new members, and during the next eight weeks
  every one of them was invited to their Eaton Square house for drinks. Fiona
  was subtle enough to see that members of the lower house were outnumbered
  by other guests, often from the House of Lords. Heath managed to escape
  from his front-bench duties on the Finance Bill to spend at least an hour
  with the Hamptons once a week. As tile day ofSir Alec Home's resignation
  drew nearer-, Charles remained confident that he had carried 34
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 out his p~lan in a subtle and discreet way. He would have been willing to
 place a wager that no one other than Edward Heath had any idea how deeply
 he was involved.

  One man who attended the second of Fiona's soirees saw exactly what was
  going on. While many of the guests spent their time admiring the Hampton
  art collection, Simon Kerslake kept a wary eye on his host and hostess.
  Kerslake was not convinced that Edward Heath would win the forthcoming
  election for Leader of the Opposition and felt confident that Reginald
  Maudling would turn out to be the party's natural choice. Maudling was,
  after all, Shadow Foreign Secretary, a former chancellor and far senior
  to Heath. More important, he was a married man. Simon doubted the Tories
  would ever pick a bachelor to lead them.
  As soon as Kerslake had left the Hamptons he jumped into a taxi and
  returned immediately to the Commons. He found Reoinald Maudling in the
  members' dining room. Fie waited until Maudling had finished his rneal
  before asking if they could have a few moments alone. The tall, shambling
  Maudling was not altogether certain of the name of the new member. Had
  he seen him just roaming around the building, he would have assumed that,
  with such looks, lie was a television newscaster covering the Leadership
  contest. He leaned over and invited Simon to join him for a drink in his
  office.
  Maudling listened intently to all that the enthusiastic young man had to
  say and accepted the judgment of the well-informed member without
  question. It was agreed that Simon should try to counter the Hampton cam-
  paign and report back his results twice a week.
  While Hampton could call on all the powers and influence of his Etonian
  background, Kerslake weighed up the advantages and disadvantages of his
  competition in a manner that would have impressed a Harvard Busi35
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ness School graduate. He did not own a palatial home in Eaton Square in
 which Turners and Holbeins were to be found on the walls, not in books. He
 also lacked a glamorous socicty wife-- though he hoped that would not be the
 case for much longer. He had no money to speak of, but he had scraped
 together enough from his employment at BBC to move from his tiny flat in
 Earl's Court to a small house on the corner of Beaufort Street in Chelsea.
 Lavinia now stayed the night more often, but he hadn't been able to convince
 her to reside there on a more permanent basis.
  "You don't have enough closet space for my shoes," she once told him.
  It didn't stop Simon from enjoying her company and remaining aware of her
  feel for politics. Over dinner the night he had seen Maudling she demanded
  to know, "But why do you support Reggie Maudling?"
  "Reggie has a great deal more experience of government than Heath, and in
  anv case he's more caring about those around him."
  "But Daddy says Heath is so much more professional,," said Lavinia.
  "That may be the case, but the British have always preferred good amateurs
  to run their government," said Simon.. And no better examnle of that than
  your father, Simon thought to himself.
  "If you believe all that stuff about amateurs, why bother to become so
  involved yourself?"
  Simon considered the question for some time before taking a sip of wine.
  "Because, frankly, I don't come from the sort of background that
  automatically commands, the center of the Tory stage."
 "True," said Lavinia, grinning. "But I do."
  Simon spent the following days trying to work out the certain Maudling and
  certain Heath supporters, although many members claimed to favor both
  candidates, according to who asked them. These he listed as

               36
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 doubtfuls. When Enoch Powell threw his cap into the ring, Simon could not
 find a single new member other than Alec Pimkin who openly supported him.
  Simon made no attempt to influence Pimkin's vote. The small rotund figure
  could be observed waddling between the members' bar and the dining room
  rather than the chamber and the library. He would have undoubtedly
  considered Simon "below his station." Even if he had not been voting for
  Powell, it was no secret that he was slightly in awe of his old school
  chum Charles Hampton, and Simon would find himself third in line. That
  left forty members from the new intake who still had to be followed up.
  Simon estimated twelve certain Heath, eleven certain Maudling and one
  Powell, leaving sixteen undecided. As the day of the election drew nearer
  it became obvious that few of the remaining sixteen actuaRy knew either
  candidate well, and that most were still not sure f6i whom they should
  vote.
  Because Simon could not invite them all to his small house on the comer
  of Beaufort Street, he would have to go to them. During the last six
  weeks of the race he accompanied his chosen Leader to twenty-three new
  members' constituencies, from Bodmin to Glasgow, from Penrith to Great
  Yarmouth, briefing Maudling studiously, before every meeting.
  Gradually it became obvious that Charles Hampton and Simon Kerslake were
  the chosen lieutenants among the new Tory intake. Some members resented
  the whispered confidences at the Eaton Square cocktail parties, or the
  discovery that Simon Kerslake had visited their constituencies, while
  others were simply envious of the reward that would inevitably be heaped
  on the victor.

  On July 22, 1965, Sir Alec Douglas-Home made his formal announcement of
  resignation to the 1922 Committee, comprised of all the Tory
  backbenchers.
 The date chosen for the Party Leadership election was

               37
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 just five days away. Charles and Simon began avoiding each other, and Fiona
 started referring to Kerslake, first in private, then in public, as "that
 pushy self-made man."' She stopped using the expression when Alec Pimkin
 asked in afl innocence whether she was referring to Edward Heath.
  On the morning of the secret ballot both Simon and Charles voted early and
  spent the rest of the day pacing the corridors of the Commons trying to
  assess the result. By lunchtime they were both outwardly exuberant, while
  inwardly despondent.
  At two-fifteen they were seated in the large committee room to hear the
  chairman of the 1922 Committee make the historic announcement:
  "The result of the election for Leader of the Conservative Parliamentary
  Party is as follows:

   EDWARD HEA,rH       150 votes
   RE(31NAL.D MAUDLING 133 votes
   ENOCH POWELL         15 votes

  Charles and Fiona opened a bottle of Krug while Simon took Lavinia to the
  Old Vic to see The Royal Hunt of the Sun.
  He slept the entire way through Robert Stephens' briffiant performance
  before being driven home in silence by Lavinia.
  "Well, I must say you were exciting company tonight,"' she said.
  "I am sorry, but I'll promise to make up for it in the near future," said
  Simon. "Let's have dinner at Annabel's on-" Simon hesitated w"Monday. Let's
  make it a special occasion."
 Lavinia smiled for the first time that night.

  When Edward Heath announced his Shadow Govermnent team, Reggie Maudling was
  named Deputy 38
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Leader. Charles Hampton received an invitation tojoin the Shadow
 Environment team as its junior spokesman.
  He was the first of the new intake to be given frontbench
  responsibilities.
  Simon Kerslake received a handwritten letter from Reggie Maudling
  thanking him for his valiant efforts.

 39
               4

 IT TOOK SIMON ALN40ST A WEEK to stop sulking over Heath's election, and by
 then he had decided on a definite course of action for the future. Having
 checked the Whip's office carefully for the Monday voting schedule, and seen
 there were no votes expected after six o'clock, he booked a table at
 Annabel's for ten. Louis promised him an alcove table hidden discreetly from
 the dance floor.
  On Monday morning Simon perused the shop windows in Bond Street before
  emerging from Cartier's with a small blue leather box which he placed in
  the pocket of his jacket. Simon returned to the Commons unable to
  concentrate fully on the orders of the day.
  fie left the Commons a little after seven to return to Beaufort Street. On
  arrival home he watched the earlyevening news before washing his hair and
  taking a shower. He shaved for a second time that day, removed the pins
  froin an evening dress shirt that had never been taken from its wrapper and
  laid out his dinner jacket.
  At nine o'clock he transferred the little box from his coat pocket to his
  dinner jacket, checked his bow tie,

               40
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 and as he left, he double-locked the front door of his little house.
  When he reached Chelsea Square a few minutes later he parked his MGB
  outside Number 4 and once again the omniscient butler ushered him
  through. Simon could hear Lavinia's high tones coming from the drawing
  room, but it was not until he walked in that he realized it was her
  father she was addressing.
 "Hello, Simon."
  "Good evening," Simon said, before kissing Lavinia gently on the cheek.
  She was dressed in a long green chiffon pown that left her creamy white
  shoulders bare.
  "Daddy thinks he can help with Ted Heath," were Lavinia"s opening words.
 "What do you mean?" asked Simon, puzzled.
  "Well," began Sir Rufus, "you might not have backed our new Leader in his
  struggle, but I did, and although I say it m, self, I still have a fair
  bit of influence with him." Y
  Simon accepted the sweet sherry Lavinia thrust into his hand.
  "I'm having lunch with Mr. Heath tomorrow and thought I'd put in a word
  on your behalf."
  "That's very kind of you," said Simon, still hating the fact that
  contacts seemed more important than ability.
  "Not at all, old boy. To be honest, I almost look upon you as one of the
  family nowadays," added Sir Rufus, grinning.
  Simon nervously touched the little box in his inside pocket.
 "Isn't that super of Daddy?" said Lavinia.
 "It certainly is," said Simon.
  "That's settled then," said Lavinia. "So let's be off to Annabel's."
  "Fine by nie," said Simon. "I have a table booked for ten o'clock," he
  added, checking his watch.
 "Is the place any good?" inquired Sir Rufus.

               41
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "It"s super, Daddy," declared Lavinia, "you should try it sometime.-
  "Those damn clubs never last. If it's still around this time next year I'll
  consider joining."
  "Perhaps you won't be around this time next year, Daddy," said Lavinia,
  giggling.
 Simon tried not to laugh.
  "If she had spoken to me like that a few years ago, I'd have put her over
  my knee," he informed Simon.
 This time Simon forced a laugh.
  "Come on, Simon," said Lavinia, "or we'll be late. Night-night, Daddy."
  Lavinia gave her father a peck on the cheek. Simon shook hands with Sir
  Rufus rather formally before escorting Lavinia to his car.
  "Isn't that wonderful news?" she said as Simon turned the ignition key.
  "Oh, yes," said Simon, guiding the car into the Fulham Road. "Very kind of
  your father." A few spots of rain iriade him turn on the windshield wipers.
  "Mummy thinks you ought to be made a Shadow Spokesman."
 "Not a hope," said Simon.
  "Don't be such a pessimist," said Lavinia. "With my family behind you
  anything could happen."
 Sirnon felt a little sick.
  "Arid Mummy knows all the influential women in the party."
  Simon had a feeling that was no longer going to be quite so important with
  a bachelor in command.
  Simon swung the car into Belgrave Square and on up toward Hyde Park Corner.
  "Arid did I tell you about the Hunt Ball next month? Absolutely everyone is
  expected to be there, I mean everyone."
  "No, you didn't mention it," said Simon, who had never admitted to Lavinia
  that he couldn't stand Hunt Balls.

               42
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Simon saw the cat run out in front of the doubledecker bus and threw on
  his brakes just in time. "Phew, that was close," he said. But a moment
  later Lavinia screamed. Simon turned to see a trickle of blood running
  down her forehead-
  "Oh, God, I'm bleeding. Get me to a hospital," she said, and began to
  sob.
  Simon drove quickly on to St. George's Hospital on the corner ol'Hyde
  Park and leaped out, leaving his car on a double yellow line. He ran
  around to the passenger side and helped Lavinia out, guiding her slowly
  to the emergency entrance. Although blood was still trickling down
  Lavinia's face, the cut above her eyebrow didn't look all that deep to
  Simon. He took off his dinnerjacket and put. it over her bare shoulders,
  doing everything he could to comfort her, but she continued to shake.
  It must have been the fact that Simon was in evening clothes that made
  the duty nurse move a little more quickly than usual. They were ushered
  through to a doctor only a few minutes after arrival.
  "It's all ever my beautiful dress," said Lavinia between sobs.
  "The stain will wash out," said the doctor matterof-factlY.
  "But will I be left with a scar for the rest of my life?" asked Lavinia.
  Simon watched with silent admiration. She was completely in control of
  everything around her.
  "Good heavens, no," replied the doctor, "it's only a flesh wound. It
  won't even require stitches. The most you might experience is a small
  headache." Thedoctordamped the blood away before cleaning the wound.
  "There will be no sign of the cut after a couple of weeks."
 "Are you certain?" demanded Lavinia.
 Simon couldn't take his eyes off her.
  "Absolutely certain," said the doctor, finally placing a small piece of
  adhesive across the wound. "Perhaps it

               43
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 would be wise for you to go home and change your dress if You are still
 planning to go out to dinner."
  "Of course, Dr. Drummond," said Simon, checking the name on the little
  lapel badge. "I'll see she's taken care of."
  Simon thanked the doctor and then helped Lavinia to the car before driving
  her back to Chelsea Square. Lavinia didn't stop whimpering all the way
  home, and she didn't notice that Simon hardly spoke. Lady MaxwellHarrington
  put her daughter to bed as soon as Simon had told her what had happened.
  When mother and daughter disappeared upstairs, Simon returned to Beaufort
  Street. He removed the little box from his blood-stained dinner jacket and
  placed it by the side of his bed. He opened it and studied the sapphirc set
  in a circle of small diamonds. He was now certain of the hand he wanted to
  see wear the ring.
  The next morning Simon telephoned to find that Lavinia was fully recovered,
  but Daddy had thought it might. be wise for her to spend the rest of the
  day in bed. Simon concurred and promised to drop in to see her sometime
  during the evening.
  Once Simon had reached his office in the Commons he phoned St. George's
  Hospital, and they told him that Dr. Drummond would be off duty until later
  that afternoon. It didn't take the skill of Sherlock Holmes to find Dr. E.
  Drummond's telephone number in the London directory.
  "It's Simon Kerslake," he said when Dr, Drummond answered the phone. "I
  wanted to thank you for the trouble you took over Lavinia last night."
  "It was no trouble, no trouble at all-in fact it was the least of last
  night's problems."
  Sirnon laughed nervously and asked, "Are you free for lunch by any chance?"
  Dr. Drummond sounded somewhat surprised, but aareed after Simon had
  suggested the Coq d'Or, which 44
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 was conveniently near St. George's Hospital. They agreed to meet at one.
  Simon arrived a few minutes early, ordered a lager and waited at the bar.
  At five past one the maitre d' brought the doctor to his side.
  "It was good of you to come at such short notice," said Simon, after
  shaking hands.
  "It was irresistible. It's not often I get invited to lunch when all I
  hqve done is clean up a flesh wound."
  Simon laughed and found himself staring at the beautiful woman. He
  recalled the calm poise of yesterday, but today she revealed an
  infectious enthusiasm that Sinion found irresistible. The maitre d'
  guided them to a table in the comer of the room. Simon stared once again
  at the slim, fair woman, whose large brown eyes had kept hini awake most
  of the night. He couldn't help noticing, men stop in mid-sentence to take
  a closer look as she passed each table.
  "I know it sounds silly," he said after they had sat down, "'but I don't
  know your first name."
 "Elizabeth," she said, smiling.
 "Mine's Simon."
  "I remember," said Elizabeth. "In fact I saw you on Panorama last month
  giving your views on the state of the National Health Service."
  "Oh," said Simon, sounding rather pleased. "Did it come over all right?"
 "You were brilliant," replied Elizabeth.
 Simon smiled.
  "Onl, an expert would have realized you hadn't the faintest idea what you
  were talking about." Simon was momentarily stunned and then burst out
  laughing.
  Over a ni,.-al Simon couldn't remember ordering, he learned that
  Elizabeth had been to school in London before training at St. Thomas's
  Hospital. "I am only working relief at St. Georges this week," she
  explained, "before I take up a ftill-time post in the gynecology de-
  
               45
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

 partrnent of St. Mary's, Paddington. If Miss MaxwellHarrington had come to
 the hospital a week later, we would never have met. How is she, by the way?"
 "Spending the day in bed."
  "You're not serious?" said Elizabeth. "I only sent her home to change her
  dress, not convalesce."
 Simon burst out laughing again.
  "I'm sorry, I probably insulted a dear friend of yours."
 "No," said Simon, "that was yesterday."

  Sirrion returned to Chelsea Square that night and learned, while sitting on
  the end of Lavinia's bed, that Dadd, had "fixed"Ted Heath, and Simon could
  expect y
 to hear from him in the near future. It didn't stop Simon from telling
 Lavinia the truth about his meeting with Elizabeth Drummond, even though he
 had no way of knowing Elizabeth's feelings. Simon was surprised at how well
 Lavinia appeared to take the news. He left a few minutes later to return to
 the House of Commons in tinne for the ten o'clock vote.
  In the corridor tLe Chief Whip took him aside and asked if he could sec him
  in his office at twelve the next morning. Simon readily agreed. After the
  vote he wandered into the Whip's office in the hope that some clue would be
  given as to why the Chief Whip wanted to see him.
  "Congratulations, ' said a junior whip, looking up from his desk.
 "Ont what?" said Simon apprehensively.
 "Oh hell, have I let the cat out of the bag?"
  "I don't think so," said Simon. "The Chief Whip has asked to see me at
  twelve tomorrow."
  "I never said a word," said the junior whip, and buried his head in some
  papers. Simon smiled and returned home.
 He was unable to sleep much that night or stand still

               46
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 most of the following morning and was back in the Whip's office by ten to
 twelve. He tried not to show too much anticipation.
  Miss Norse, the Chief Whip's aging secretary, looked up from. her
  typewriter. The tapping stopped for a moment.
  "Good morning, Mr. Kerslake. I'm afraid the Chief Whip has been held up
  in a meeting with Mr. Heath."
  "I fully understand," said Simon. "Am I to wait, or has he arranged
  another appointment?"
  "No," said Miss Norse, sounding somewhat surprised. "No," she repeated.
  "He simply said that whatever he wanted to see you about was no longer
  important, and he was sorry to have wasted your time."
  Simon turned to leave, immediately realizing what had happened. He went
  straight to the nearest telephone booth and dialed five digits of
  Lavinia's home number, and then hung up suddenly. He waited for a few mo-
  ments before he dialed seven digits.
 It was a few minutes before they found her.
 "Dr..Druaimond," she said crisply.
  "Elizabetb, it's Simon Kerslake. Are you free for dinner?"
 "Why, does Lavinia need her Band-Aid changed?"
  "No," said Simon, "Lavinia died-somewhat prematurely."
  Elizabeth ~:,huckled. "I do hope it's not catching," she said, before
  adding, "I'm afraid I don't get off until tenthirty."
  "Neither do I," said Simon, "so I could pick you up at the hospital."
 "You sound a bit low," said Elizabeth.
  "Not low----older," said Simon. "I've grown up about twenty.years in the
  last two days."

  Although he wasn't much more than a glorified messenger boy, Charles
  Hampton was enjoying the chal47
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 lenge of his new appointment as a junior Opposition spokesman in
 Environment. At least he felt he was near the center of affairs. Even if he
 was not actually making decisions on future policy, he was at least
 listening to them. Whenever a debate on housing took place in the Commons,
 he was allowed to sit on the front bench along, with the rest of the
 Conservative team. He had already caused the defeat of two minor amendments
 on the Town and Country Planning Bill, and had added one of his own,
 relating to the protection of trees. "it isn't preventing a world war," he
 admitted to Fiona, "but in its own way it's quite important, because if we
 win the next General Election, I'm now confident of being, offered a junior
 office. Then I'll have a real chance to shape policy."
  Fiona continued to play her part, hosting monthly dinner parties at their
  Eaton Square house. By the end of the year every member of the Shadow
  Cabinet had been to dinner at least once at the Hamptons', where Fiona
  never allowed a menu to be repeated or wore the same dress twice.
  When the parliamentary year began again in October, Charles was one ofthe
  names continually dropped by the political analysts as someone to watch.
  "He makes things happen," was the sentiment that was expressed again and
  again. 1- le could barely cross the members' lobby without a reporter's
  trying to solicit his views on everything from butter subsidies to rape.
  Fiona clipped out of the papers every mention of her husband and couldn't
  help noticing that only one new member was receiving more press coverage
  than Charles-a young man t"rom Leeds named Raymond Gould.

Ra, mond Gould could be found tapping away late Y
 into the night on his ancient typewriter with his phone off the hook. He was
 writing page after page, checking,

               48
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 then rechecking the proofs, and often referring to the piles of books that
 cluttered his desk.
  When Raymond's Full Emplo~vment at Any Cost? was published and subtitled
  "Reflections of a Worker Educated After the Thirties," it caused an
  immediate sensation. The suggestion that the unions would become impotent
  and the Labour Party would need to be more innovative to capture the
  young vote was never likely to endear him to the Party's rank and file.
  Raymond had anticipated that it would provoke a storm of abuse from union
  leaders, and even among some of his more leftwing colleagues. But when
  A.J.P. Taylor suggested in the London Times that it was the most profound
  and realistic look at the Labour Party since Anthony Crosland's The
  Future oj* Socialism, and had produced a politician of rare honesty and
  courage, Raymond knew his strategy and hard work were paying dividends.
  He found himself a regular topic of conversation at every political
  dinner party in London.
  Joyce thought the book a magnificent piece of scholarship, and she spent
  a considerable time trying to convince trade unionists that, in fact, it
  showed a passionate concern for their movement, while at the same time
  realistically, considering the Labour Party's chances of governing in the
  next decade.
  The Labour Chief Whip took Raymond aside and told him, "You've caused a
  right stir, lad. Now keep your head down for a few months and you'll
  probably find every Cabinet tnember quoting you as if it was party
  policy."
  Raymond took the Chief Whip's advice, but he did not have to wait months.
  Just three weeks after the book's publication Raymond received a missive
  from Number 10 requesting him to check over the Prime Minister's speech
  to the Trade Union Conference and add any suggestions he might have.
  Raymond read the

               49
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 note agai 'a, delighted by the recognition it acknowl
 edged.
 He be-an to hope he might be the first of the new in-
     L
 take to be invited to join the Government front bench.

  Simon Kerslake looked upon the defeat of Maudling and his own failure to be
  offered a post in the Whip's office as only temporary setbacks. He soon
  began to work on a new strategy for gaining his colleagues' respect.
  Realizing that there was a fifteen-minute period twice a week when someone
  with his oratorical skills could command notice, he turned all his cunning
  against the Government benches. At the beginning of a new session each week
  he would carefully study the agenda and in particular the first five
  questions listed for the Prime Minister on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
  Supplementary questions were required to have only the loosest association
  with the subject of the main question. This meant that although Ministers
  were prepared for the first question, they could never be sure what
  supplementaries would be thrown at them. Thus, every Monday morning Simon
  would prepare a supplementary for at least three questions. These he
  worded, then reworded, so that they were biting or witty and always likely
  to embarrass the Labour Government. Although preparation could take several
  hours, Simon would make them sound as though they had been jotted down on
  the back of his agenda paper during Question Time--and in fact would even
  do so. He remembered Churchill's comment after being praised for a
  brilliant rejoinder, "All my best off-the-cuff remarks have been prepared
  days before."
  Even so, Simon was surprised at how quickly the House took it for granted
  that he would be there on the attack, probing, demanding, harrying the
  Prime Minister's every move. Whenever he rose from his seat, the Party
  perked up in anticipation, and many of his inter-
  
               50
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ruptions reached the political columns of the Pewspapers the nexi day. The
 Labour Party had become painfully aware of'K~rslake's contribution at
 Question Time.
  Uvemplo~inent was the subject ofthat day's question. Simon was q uickly on
  his feet, leaning forward, jabbing a finger in tbe. direction of the
  Government front bench.
  "With the appointment of' four extra Secretaries of State this week the
  Prime Minister can at least claim he has full emp~oyrnent- - in the
  Cabinet."
  The Prime Minister sank lower into his seat, looking forward to tho recess.
  No one wits more delighted than Simon when lie read in the Sun4ay Express
  Crossbencher column that "Prime Minister Wilson may dislike Edward Heath,
  but he detests Smnon Kerslake." Simon smiled. pleased to find that real
  results had come from his own efforts, not from outside -_'ontacts.

 51
 PART TWO

  Junior Office

      k%~-
      ow
 1966-11972
               5

 THE BRITISH CONSTITUTION remains one of the great mysteries to almost all
 who were not born on that little island in the North Sea, and to a
 considerable number of those who have never left its shores. This may be
 partly because, unlike the Americans, the British have had no written
 constitution since Magna Carta in 1215 and since then have acted only on
 precedent.
  A Prime Minister is elected for a term of five years, but he can "go to the
  country" whenever he thinks fit, which inevitably means when he considers
  he has the best chance of winning a General Election. If the government of
  the day has a large majority in the Commons, the electorate expects it to
  remain in power for at least four of the five years. In such circumstances
  "to go early" is considered opportunistic by the voters and for that reason
  often backfires. But when a party's majority in the House is small, as was
  the case with Harold Wilson's Labour Government, the press never stops
  speculating on. the date of the next election.
  The only method the Opposition has for removing the Government in under
  five years is to call for a vote of

               55
FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "noconfidence" in the House of Commons. If the Government is defeated, the
 Prime Minister has to call an election within a few weeks--which may well
 not be to his advantage. In law, the monarch has the final say, but for the
 past two hundred years the Kings and Queens of England have only rubber-
 stamped the Prime Minister's decision, although they have been known to
 frown.

 By 1966 Harold Wilson was left with little choice. Given his majority of
 only four, everyone knew it would not be long before he had to call a
 General Election. In March of 1966 he sought an audience with the Queen
 andshe agreed to dissolve Parliament immediately. The election campaign
 started the next day.

 "You'll enjoy this," said Simon as he walked up to the first door. Elizabeth
 remained uncertain, but could think of no better way to find out what grass
 roots politics was really like. She had taken the few days' vacation due her
 in order to spend them in Coventry with Simon. It had never crossed her mind
 that she might fall for a politician, but she had to admit that his
 vote-catching charm was proving irresistible compared to her colleagues'
 bedside manner.

 Simon Kerslake, with such a tiny majority to defend, began spending his
 spare time in his Coventry constituency. The local people seemed pleased
 with the apprenticeship of their new member, but the disinterested
 statisticians pointed out that a swing of less than I percent would remove
 him from the House for another five years. By then his rivals would be on
 the second rung of the ladder.

 The Tory Chief Whip advised Simon to stay put in Coventry and not to
 participate in any further parliamentary business. "There'll be no more
 important issues between now and the election," he assured him. "The most
 worthwhile thing you can do is pick up votes in the constituency, not give
 them in Westminster."

56
                                              FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Simon's opponent was the former member, Alf Abbott, who became
  progressively confident of victory as the national swing to Labour
  accelerated during the campaign. The smaller Liberal Party fielded a
  candidate, Nigel Bainbridge, but he admitted openly that he could only
  come in third.
  For their first round of canvassing, Elizabeth wore her only suit, which
  she had bought when she had been interviewed for her first hospital job.
  Simon admired her sense of propriety, and while Elizabeth's outfit would
  satisfy the matrons in the constituency, her fair hair and shm figure
  still had the local press wanting to photograph her.
  The street list of names was on a card in Simon's pocket.
  "Good morning, Mrs. Foster. My name is Simon Kerslake. I'm your
  Conservative candidate."
  "Oh, how nice to meet you. I have so much I need to discuss with
  you-won't you come in and have a cup of tea?"
  "It's kind of you, Mrs. Foster, but I have rather a lot of ground to
  cover during the next few days." When the door closed. Simon put a red
  line through her name on his card.
  "How can you be sure she's a Labour supporter?" demanded Elizabeth. "She
  seemed so friendly."
  "The Labourites are trained to ask all the other candidates, in for tea
  and waste their time. Our side will always say, 'You have my vote, don't
  spend your time with me' and let you get on to those who are genuinely
  uncommitted."
  Elizabeth couldn't hide her disbelief. "That only confirms my worst fears
  about politicians," she said. "How can I have fallen for one?"
 "Perhaps you mistook me for one of your patients."
  "My patients don't tell me they have broken arms when they're going
  blind," she said.

               57
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

  Mrs. Foster's next-door neighbor said, "I always vote Conservative."
  Simon put a blue line through the name and knocked on the next door.
 "My name is Simon Kerslake and I..."
  "I know who you are, young man, and I'll have none of your politics."
 "May I ask who you will be voting for?" asked Simon.
 "Liberal."
 "Why?" asked Elizabeth.
 "Because I believe in supporting the underdog."
 "But surely that will turn out to be a waste of a vote."
  "Certainly not. Lloyd George was the greatest Prime Minister of this
  century."
  "But. . _" began Elizabeth enthusiastically. Simon put a hand on her arm.
  "Thank you, sir, for your time," he said, and prodded Elizabeth gently down
  the path.
  "Sorry, Elizabeth," said Simon, when they were back on the pavement. "Once
  they mention Lloyd George we have no chance: they're either Welsh or have
  remarkably long memories."
 He knocked on the next door.
 "My name is Simon Kerslake, I..."
 "Get lost, creep," came back the reply.
  "Who are you calling creep?" Elizabeth retaliated as the door was slammed
  in their faces. "Charming man," she added.
  "Don't be offended, Dr. Drummond. He was referring to me, not you."
 "What shall I put by his name?"
  "A question mark. No way of telling who he votes for. Probably abstains."
 He tried the next door.
  "Hello, Simon," said a jolly red-faced lady before he could open his mouth.
  "Don't waste your time on me, I'll always vote for you."
 "Thank you, Mrs. Irvine," said Simon, checking his

               58
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 house list. "What about your next-door neighbor?" he asked, pointing back.
  "Ah, he's an irritable old basket, but I'll see he gets to the polls on the
  day and puts his cross in the right box. He'd better, or I'll stop keeping
  an eye on his greyhound when he's out."
 "Thank you very much, Mrs. Irvine."
 "One more blue," said Simon.
 "And you might even pick up the greyhound vote."
  They covered four streets during the next three hours, and Simon put blue
  lines only through those names he was certain would support him on election
  day.
 "Why do you have to be so sure?" asked Elizabeth.
  "Because when we phone them to vote on Election Day we don't want to remind
  the Opposition, let alone arrange a ride for someone who then takes
  pleasure in voting Labour."
 Elizabeth laughed. "Politics is so dishonest."
  "Be happy you're not going out with an American Senator," said Simon,
  putting another blue line through the last name in the street. "At least we
  don't have to be millionaires to run."
  "Perhaps I'd like to marry a millionaire," Elizabeth said, griinning.
  "On a parliamentary salary it will take me about two hundred and forty-two
  years to achieve."
 "I'm not sure I can wait that long."

  Four days before the election Simon and Elizabeth stood in the wings behind
  the stage of Coventry Town Hall with Alf Abbott, Nigel Bainbridge and their
  wives for a public debate. The three couples made stilted conversation. The
  political correspondent of the Coventry Evening Telegraph acted as
  chairman, introducing each of the protagonists as they walked onto the
  stage, to applause from different sections of the hall. Simon spoke first,
  holding the attention of the large audience for over 59
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 twenty minutes. Those who tried to heckle him ended up regretting having
 brought attention to themselves. Without once referring to his notes, he
 quoted figures and clauses from Government bills with an ease that impressed
 Elizabeth. During the questions that followed, Simon once again proved to be
 far better informed than Abbott or Bainbridge, but he was aware that the
 packed hall held only seven hundred that cold March evening, while elsewhere
 in Coventry were fifty thousand more voters, most of them glued to their
 television watching "Ironside."
  Although the local press proclaimed Simon the victor of a one-sided debate,
  he remained downcast by the national papers, which were now predicting a
  landslide for Labour.
  On election morning Simon picked up Elizabeth at six so he could be among
  the first to cast his vote at the local primary school. They spent the rest
  of the day traveling from polling hall to Party headquarters, trying to
  keep up the morale of his supporters. Everywhere they went, the committed
  believed in his victory but Simon knew it would be close. A senior
  Conservative backbencher had once told him that an outstanding member could
  be worth a thousand personal votes, and a weak opponent might sacrifice
  another thousand. Even an extra two thousand wasn't going to be enough.
  As the Coventry City Hall clock struck nine, Simon and Elizabeth sat down
  on the steps of the last polling hall. He knew there was nothing he could
  do now--4he last vote had been cast. Just then, ajolly lady, accompanied by
  a sour-faced man, was coming out of the hall. She had a smile of
  satisfaction on her face.
 "Hello, Mrs. Irvine," said Simon. "How are you?"
 "I'm fine, Simon." She smiled.
  "Looks like she fixed the greyhound vote," Elizabeth whispered in Simon's
  ear.
"Now don't fret yourself, lad," Mrs. Irvine continued. 60
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "I never failed to vote for the winner in fifty-two years, and that's
 longer than you've lived." She winked and led the sour-faced man away.
  A small band of supporters accompanied Simon and Elizabeth to the City
  Hall to witness the count. As Simon entered the hall, the first person
  he saw was Alf Abbott, who had a big grin on his face. Simon was not
  discouraged by the smile as he watched the little slips of paper pour out
  of the boxes. Abbott should have remembered that the first boxes to be
  counted were always from the city wards, where most of the committed La-
  bourites lived.
  As both men walked around the tables, the little piles of ballots began
  to be checked-first in tens, then hundreds, until they were finally
  placed in thousands and handed over to the town clerk. As the night drew
  on, Abbott's grin turned to a smile, from a smile to a poker face, and
  finally to a look of anxiety as the piles grew closer and closer in size.
  For over three hours the process of emptying the boxes continued and the
  scrutineers checked each little white slip before handing in their own
  records. At one in the morning the Coventry town clerk added up the list
  of numbers in front of him and asked the three candidates to join him.
 He told them the results.
  Alf Abbott smiled. Simon showed no emotion, but called for a recount.
  For over an hour, he paced nervously around the room as the scrutineers
  checked and double-checked each pile: a change here, a mistake there, a
  lost vote discovered, and, on one occasion, the name on the top of the
  pile of one hundred votes was not the same as the ninety-nine beneath it.
  At last the scrutineers handed back their figures. Once again the town
  clerk added up the columns of numbers before asking the candidates to
  join him.

               61
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  This time Simon smiled, while Abbott looked surprised and demanded a
  further recount. The town clerk acquiesced, but said it had to be the last
  time. Both candidates agreed in the absence of their Liberal rival, who was
  sleeping soundly in the comer, secure in the knowledge that no amount of
  recounting would alter his position in the contest.
  Once again the piles were checked and doublechecked and five mistakes were
  discovered in the 42,588 votes cast. At 3:30 A.M. with counters and
  checkers falling asleep at their tables, the town clerk once more asked the
  candidates to join him. They were both stunned when they heard the result,
  and the town clerk informed them that there would be yet a further recount
  in the morning when his staff had managed to get some sleep.
  All the ballots were then replaced carefully in the black boxes, locked and
  left in the safekeeping of the local constabulary, while the candidates
  crept away to their beds. Simon and Elizabeth booked into separate rooms at
  the Leofric Hotel.
  Simon slept in fits and starts through the remainder of the night.
  Elizabeth brought a cup of tea to his room at eight the same morning to
  find him still in bed.
  "Simon," she said, "you look like one of my patients just before an
  operation."
 "I think I'll skip this operation," he said, turning over.
  "Don't be such a wimp, Simon," she said rather snappily. "You're still the
  member, and you owe it to your supporters to remain as confident as they
  feel."
  Simon sat up in bed and stared at Elizabeth. "Quite right," he said,
  stretching for his tea, unable to hide the pleasure he felt in discovering
  how much she had picked up of the political game in such a short time.
  Simon had a long bath, shaved slowly, and they were back at the Town Hall
  a few minutes before the count was due to recommence. As Simon walked up
  the steps

               62
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 he was greeted by a battery of television cameras and journalists who had
 heard rumors as to why the count had been held up overnight and knew they
 couldn't afford to be absent as the final drama unfolded.
  The counters looked eager and ready when the town clerk checked his watch
  and nodded. The boxes were unlocked and placed in front of the staff for
  the fourth time. Once again the little piles of ballots grew from tens
  into hundreds and then into thousands. Simon paced around the tables,
  more to bum up his nervous energy than out of a desire to keep checking.
  He had thirty witnesses registered as his counting agents to make sure
  he didn't lose by sleight of hand or genuine mistake.
  Once the counters and scrutineers had finished, they sat in front of
  their piles and waited for the slips to be collected for the town clerk.
  When the town clerk had added tip his little columns of figures for the
  final time he found that four votes had changed hands.
  He explained to Simon and Alf Abbott the procedure he intended to adopt
  in view of the outcome. He told both candidates that he had spoken to
  Lord Elwyn Jones at nine that morning and the Lord Chancellor had read
  out the relevant statute in election law that was to be followed in such
  an extraordinary circumstance.
  The town clerk walked up on to the stage with Simon Kerslake and Alf
  Abbott in his wake, both looking anxious.
  Everyone in the room stood to be sure of a better view of the
  proceedings. When the pushing back of chairs, the coughing and the
  nervous chattering had stopped, the town clerk began. First he tapped the
  microphone that stood in front of him to be sure it was working. The me-
  tallic scratch was audible throughout the silent room. Satisfied, he
  began to speak.
  "I, the returning officer for the district of Coventry Central, hereby
  declare the total number of votes cast for each candidate to be as
  follows:

                63
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

   ALF ABBOTT, (LABOUR)   18,437
   NIGEL BAINBRIDGE, (LIBERAL)  5,714
   SIMON KERSLAKE, (CONSERVATIVE) 18,437

  The supporters of both the leading candidates erupted into a noisy frenzy.
  It was several minutes before the town clerk's voice could be heard above
  the babble of Midland accents.
  "In accordance with Section Sixteen of the Representation of the People Act
  of 1949 and Rule Fifty of the Parliamentary Election Rules in the second
  schedule to that Act, I am obliged to decide between tied candidates by
  lot," be announced. "I have spoken with the Lord Chancellor and he has
  confirmed that the drawing of straws or the toss of a coin may constitute
  decision by lot for this purpose. Both candidates have agreed to the latter
  course of action."
  Pandemonium broke out again as Simon and Abbott stood motionless on each
  side of the town clerk waiting for their fate to be determined.
  "Last night I borrowed from Barclay's Bank," continued the town clerk,
  aware that ten million people were watching him on television for the first
  and probably the last time in his life, "a golden sovereign. On one side is
  the head of King George the Third, on the other Britannia. I shall invite
  the sitting member, Mr. Kerslake, to call his preference." Abbott curtly
  nodded his agreement. Both men inspected the coin.
  The town clerk rested the golden sovereign on his thumb, Simon and Abbott
  still standing on either side of him. He turned to Simon and said, "You
  will call, Mr. Kerslake, while the coin is in the air."
  The silence was such that they might have been the only three people in the
  room. Simon could feel his heart thumping in his chest as the town clerk
  spun the coin high above him.
 "Tails," he said clearly as the coin was at its zenith.

               64
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 The sovereign hit the floor and bounced, turning over several times before
 settling at the feet of the town clerk.
  Simon stared down at the coin and sighed audibly. The town clerk cleared
  his throat before declaring, "Following the decision by lot, I declare the
  aforementioned Mr. Simon Kerslake to be the duly elected Member of
  Parliament for Coventry Central."
  Simon's supporters charged forward and on to the stage and carried him on
  their shoulders out of the City Hall and through the streets of Coventry.
  Simon's eyes searched for Elizabeth but she was lost in the crush.
  Barclay's Bank presented the golden sovereign to the member the next day,
  and the editor of the Coventry Evening Telegraph rang to ask if there had
  been any particular reason why he had selected tails.
  "Yes," Simon replied. "George the Third lost America for us. I wasn't going
  to let him lose Coventry for me."

  Raymond Gould increased his majority to 12,413 in line with Labour's
  massive nationwide victory, and Joyce was ready for a week's rest.

  Charles Hampton could never recall accurately the size of his own majority
  because, as Fiona explained to the old earl the following morning, "They
  don't count the Conservative vote in Sussex Downs, darling, they weigh it."

  Simon spent the day after the election traveling around the constituency
  hoarsely thanking his supporters for the hard work they had put in. For his
  most loyal supporter, he could manage only four more words: "Will you marry
  me?"

               65
               6

IN M13ST DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIEs a newly elected leader
enjoys a transitional period during which he is able to
announce the policies he intends to pursue and whom he
has selected to implement them. But in Britain, MPs sit
by their phones and wait for forty-eight hours immedi
ately after the election results have been declared. If a
call comes in the first twelve hours, they will be asked to
join the Cabinet of twenty, during the second twelve
given. a position as one of the thirty Ministers of State,
and the third twelve, made one of the forty Under Secre
taries, of State, and during the final twelve, a parliamen
tary private secretary to a Cabinet Minister. If the phone
hasn't rung by then, they remain on the back benches.

  Raymond returned from Leeds the moment the count was over, leaving Joyce
  to carry out the traditional "thank you" drive across the
  constituency-
  When he wasn't sitting by the phone the following day fie was walking
  around it, nervously pushing his glasses back up on his nose. The first
  call came from his mother, who had rung to congratulate him.
 "On what?" he asked. "Have you heard something?"

               66
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "No, love," she said, "I just rang to say how pleased I was about your
  increased majority."
 460h."
  "And to add how sorry we were not to see you before you left the
  constituency, especiaUy as you had to pass the shop on the way to the
  highway."
  Raymond remained silent. Not again, Mother, he wanted to say.
  The second call was from a colleague inquiring if Raymond had been
  offered a job.
  "Not so far," he said before learning of his contemporary's promotion.
 The third call was from one of Joyce's friends.
  "When will she be back?" another Yorkshire accent inquired..
  "I've no idea," said Raymond, desperate to get the cafler off the line.
 "I'D caH again this afternoon, then."
  "Fine," said Raymond putting the phone down quickly.
  He disappeared into the kitchen to make himself a cheese sandwich, but
  there wasn't any cheese, so he ate stale bread smeared with
  three-week-old butter. He was halfway through a second slice when the
  phone rang.
 "Raymond?"
 He held his breath.
 "Noel. Brewster."
  He exhaled in exasperation as he recognized the vicar's voice.
  "Can you read the second lesson when you're next up in Leeds? We had
  rather hoped you would read it this morning-your dear wife..."
  "Yes,"' he promised. "The first weekend I am back in Leeds." The phone
  rang again as soon as he placed it back on the receiver.
 "Raymond Gould?" said an anonymous voice.
 "Speaking," he said.

               67
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "The Prime Minister will be with you in one moment."
  Raymond waited. The front door opened and another voice shouted, "It's only
  me. I don't suppose you found anything to eat. Poor love." Joyce joined
  Raymond in the drawing room.
  Without looking at his wife, he waved his hand at her to keep quiet.
 "Raymond," said a voice on the other end of the line.
  "Grood afternoon, Prime Minister," he replied, rather formally, in response
  to Harold Wilson's more pronounced Yorkshire accent.
  "I was hoping you would feel able to join the new team as Under Secretary
  for Employment?"
  Raymond breathed a sigh of relief It was exactly what he'd hoped for. "I'd
  be delighted, sir," replied the new Minister.
  "Good, that will give the trade union leaders something to think about."
  The phone went dead.
  Raymond Gould, Under Secretary of State for Employment, sat motionless on
  the next rung of the ladder.
  As Raymond left the house the next morning, he was greeted by a driver
  standing next to a gleaming black Austin Westminster. Unlike his own
  secondhand Volkswage n, it glowed in the morning light. The rear door was
  opened and Raymond climbed in to be driven off to the department. By his
  side on the back seat was a red leather box the size of a very thick
  briefcase with gold lettering running along the edge. "Under Secretary of
  State for Employment." Raymond turned the small key, knowing what Alice
  must have felt like on her way down the rabbit hole.

  When Charles Hampton returned to the Commons on Tuesday there was a note
  from the Whip's office waiting for him on the members' letter board. One of
  the En-
  
               68
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 vironment team had lost his seat in the General Election and Charles had
 been promoted to number two on the Opposition bench in that department,
 to shadow the Government Minister of State. "No more preservation of
 trees. You'll be on to higher things now," chuckled the Chief Whip.
 "Pollution, water shortage, exhaust fumes . . ."
  Charles smiled with pleasure as he walked through the Commons,
  acknowledging old colleagues and noticing a considerable number of new
  faces. He didn't stop to talk to any of the newcomers as he could not be
  certain if they were Labour or Conservative, and, given the election
  results, most of them had to be the former. As for his older colleagues,
  many wore forlorn looks on their faces. For some it would be a
  considerable time before they were offered the chance of office again,
  while others knew they had served as Ministers for the last time. In
  politics, he'd quickly learned, the luck of age and timing could play a
  vital part in any man's career, however able he might be. But at
  thirty-five, Charles could easily dismiss such thoughts.
  Charles proceeded to his office to check over the constituency mail.
  Fiona had reminded him of the eight hundred letters of thanks to the
  party workers that had to be sent out. He groaned at the mere thought of
  it.
  "Mrs. Blenkinsop, the chairman of the Sussex Ladies' Luncheon Club, wants
  you to be their guest speaker for their annual lunch," his secretary told
  him once he had settled.
  "Reply yes~what's the date?" asked Charles, reaching for his diary.
 "June sixteenth."
  "Stupid women, that's Ladies Day at Ascot. Tell her that I'm delivering
  a speech at an environmental conference, but I'll be certain to make
  myself free for the function next year."

               69
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 The secretary looked up anxiously.
  "Don't worry," said Charles. "She'll never find out." The secretary moved
  on to the next letter.

  Simon had placed the little sapphire ring surrounded by diamonds on the
  third finger of her left hand. Three months later a wide gold band joined
  the engagement ring.
  After Mr. and Dr. Kerslake had returned home from their honeymoon in Italy
  they both settled happily into Beaufort Street. Elizabeth found it quite
  easy to fit all her possessions into the little Chelsea house, and Simon
  knew after only a few weeks that he had married a quite exceptional woman.
  In the beginning the two of them had found it difficult to mesh their
  demanding careers, but they soon worked out a comfortable routine. Simon
  wondered if this could continue as smoothly if they decided to start a
  family or he was made a Minister. But the latter could be years away; the
  Tories would not change their Leader until Heath had been given a second
  chance at the polls.
  Simon began writing articles for the Spectator and for the Sunday Express
  center pages in the hope of building a reputation outside the House while
  at the same time supplementing his parliamentary salary of three thousand
  four hundred pounds. Even with Elizabeth's income as a doctor, he was
  finding it difficult to make ends meet, and yet he didn't want to worry his
  wife. He envied the Charles Hamptons of this world who did not seem to give
  a second thought about expenditure. Simon wondered if the damn man had any
  problems at all. He ran a finger down his own bank account: as usual there
  was a figure around five hundred pounds in the righthand margin, and as
  usual it was in red.
  He pressed on with demanding questions to the Prime Minister each Tuesday
  and Thursday. Even after this became routine, he prepared himself with his
  usual thor-
  
               70
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 oughness, and on one occasion he even elicited praise from his normally
 taciturn Leader. But he found as the weeks passed that his thoughts
 continually returned to finance~--or his lack of it.
 That was before he met Ronnie Nethercote.

  Raymond's reputation was growing. He showed no signs of being overcome by
  his major role in a department as massive as Employment. Most civil
  servants who came in contact with Raymond thought of him as brilliant,
  demanding, hardworking and, not that it was ever reported to him, arrogant.
  His ability to cut a junior civil servant off in mid-sentence or to correct
  his principal private secretary on matters of detail did not endear him
  even to his closest staff members, who always want to be loyal to their
  Minister.
  Raymond's work load was prodigious, and even the Permanent Secretary
  experienced Gould's unrelenting "Don't make excuses" when he tried to trim
  one of Raymond's private schemes. Soon senior civil servants were talking
  of when, not whether, he would be promoted. His Secretary of State, like
  all men who were expected to be in six places at once, often asked Raymond
  to stand in for him, but even Raymond was surprised when he was invited to
  represent the Department as guest of honor at the annual Confederation of
  British Industries dinner.
  Joyce. checked to see that her husband's dinner jacket was well brushed,
  his shirt spotless and his shoes shining like a guard officer's. His
  carefully worded speech-a combination of civil-servant draftsmanship and a
  few more forceful phrases of his own to prove to the assembled capitalists
  that not every member of the Labour Party was a "raving commie"-was safely
  lodged in his inside pocket. His driver ferried him from his Lansdowne Road
  home toward the West End.
 Raymond enjoyed the occasion, and, although he was

               71
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 nervous when he rose to represent the Government in reply to the toast of
 the guests, by the time he had resurned his seat he felt it had been one of
 his better efforts. The ovation that followed was certainly more than
 polite, coming from what had to be classified as a naturally hostile
 audience.
  "That speech was dryer than the Chablis," one guest whispered in the
  chairman's ear, but he had to agree that with men like Gould in high
  office, it was going to be a lot easier to live with a Labour Government.
  The man on Simon Kerslake's left was far more blunt in voicing his opinion
  of Raymond Gould. "Bloody man thinks like a Tory, talks like a Tory, so why
  isn't he a Tory9" he demanded.
  Simon grinned at the prematurely balding man who had been expressing his
  equally vivid views throughout dinner. At over two hundred pounds, Ronnie
  Nethercote looked as if he was trying to escape from every part of his
  bulging dinner jacket.
  "I expect," said Simon in reply, "that Gould, born in the thirties and
  living in Leeds, would have found it hard to join the Young Conservatives."
  "Balls," said Ronnie. "I managed it and I was born in the East End of
  London without any of his advantages. Now tell me, Mr. Kerslake, what do
  you do when you're not wasting your time in the House of Commons?"

  Raymond stayed on after dinner and talked for some time to the captains of
  industry. A little after eleven he left to return to Lansdowne Road.
  As his chauffeur drove slowly away from Grosvenor House down Park Lane, the
  Under Secretary waved expansively back to his host. Someone else waved in
  reply. At first Raymond only glanced out the window, assuming it was
  another dinner guest, until he saw her legs. Standing on the corner outside
  the gas station on Park Lane stood a young girl smiling at him invitingly,
  her 72
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 white leather miniskirt so short it might have been better described as a
 handkerchief Her long legs reminded him of Joyce's ten years before. Her
 finely curled hair and the set of her hips remained firmly implanted in
 Raymond's mind all the way home.
  When they reached Lansdowne Road, Raymond climbed out of the official car
  and said goodnight to his driver before walking slowly toward his front
  door, but he did not take out his latchkey. He waited until he was sure the
  driver had turned the comer before looking up and checking the bedroom
  window. All the lights were out. Joyce must be asleep.
  He crept down the path and back on to the pavement, then looked up and down
  the road, finally spotting the space in which Joyce had parked the
  Volkswagen. He checked the spare key on his key ring and fumbled about,
  feeling like a car thief. It took three attempts before the motor
  spluttered to life, and Raymond wondered if he would wake up the whole
  neighborhood as he moved off and headed back to Park Lane, not certain what
  to expect. When he reached Marble Arch, he traveled slowly down in the
  center stream of traffic. A few dinner guests in evening dress were still
  spilling out of Grosvenor House. He passed the gas station: she hadn't
  moved. She smiled again and he accelerated, nearly bumping into the car in
  front of him. Raymond traveled back up to Marble Arch, but instead of
  turning toward home, he drove down Park Lane again, this time not so
  quickly and on the inside lane. He took his foot off the accelerator as he
  approached the gas station and she waved again. He returned to Marble Arch
  before repeating his detour down Park Lane, this time even more slowly. As
  he passed Grosvenor House for a third time, he checked to be sure that
  there were no stragglers still chatting on the pavement. It was clear. He
  touched the brakes and his car came to a stop just beyond the gas station.
  He waited.

                73
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The girl looked up and down the street before strolling over to the car,
  opening the passenger door and taking a seat next to the Under Secretary of
  State for Employment.
 "LoH:)king for business?"
 "What do you mean?" asked Raymond hoarsely.
  "Come on, darling. You can't imagine I was standing out there at this time
  of night hoping to get a suntan."
  Raymond turned to look at the girl more carefully and wanted to touch her
  despite the aura of cheap perfume. Her black blouse had three buttons
  undone; a fourth would have left nothing to the imagination.
 "It's ten pounds at my place."
 "Where's your place?" he heard himself say.
 "I use a hotel in Paddington."
  "How do we get there?" he asked, putting his hand nervously through his red
  hair.
 "Just head up to Marble Arch and I'll direct you."
  Raymond pulled out and went off toward Hyde Park Comer and drove around
  before traveling on toward Marble Arch once again.
 "I'm Mandy," she said. "What's your name?"
 Raymond hesitated. "Malcolm."
 "And what do you do, Malcolm, in these hard times?"
 "I ... I sell secondhand cars."
  "Haven't picked out a very good one for yourself, have you?" She laughed.
 Raymond made no comment. It didn't stop Mandy.
  "What's a secondhand-car salesman doing dressed up like a toff, then?"
 Raymond had quite forgotten he was still in black tie.
  "I've. . Just been to a convention ... at the ... Hilton Hotel."
  "Lucky for some," she said, and lit a cigarette. "I've been standing
  outside Grosvenor House all night in the hope of getting some rich feller
  from that posh party."

               74
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Raymond's cheeks nearly turned the color of his hair. "Slow down and take
 the second on the left."
  He followed her instructions until they pulled up outside a small dingy
  hotel. "I'll get out first, then you," she said. "Just walk straight
  through reception and follow me up the stairs." As she got out of the car
  he nearly drove off and might have done so if his eye hadn't caught. the
  sway of her hips as she walked back toward the hotel.
  He obeyed her instructions and climbed several flights of narrow stairs
  until he reached the top floor. As he approached the landing, a large
  bosomy blonde passed him on the way down.
 "Hi, Mandy," she shouted back at her friend.
 "Hi, Sylv. Is the room free?"
 "Just," said the blonde sourly.
  Mandy pushed open the door and Raymond followed her in. The room was
  small and narrow. In one comer stood a tiny bed and a threadbare carpet.
  The faded yellow wallpaper was peeling in several places. There was a
  washbasin attached to the wall; a dripping tap had left a brown stain on
  the enamel.
 Mandy put her hand out and waited.
  "Ah, yes, of course," said Raymond, taking out his wallet to find he only
  had nine pounds on him.
  She scowled. "Not going to get overtime tonight, am 1, darling?" she
  said, tucking the money carefully away in the comer of her bag before
  matter-of-factly taking off all her clothes.
  Although the act of undressing had been totally sexless, he was still
  amazed by the beauty of her body, Raymond felt somehow detached from the
  real world. He watched her, eager to feel the texture of her skin, but
  made no move. She lay down on the bed.
 "Let's get on with it, darling. I've got a living to earn."
 Raymond undressed quickly, keeping his back to the

               75
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 bed. He folded his clothes in a neat pile on the floor as there was no
 chair. Then he lay down on top of her. It was all over in a few minutes.
  "Come quickly, don't you, darling?" said Mandy, grinning.
  Raymond turned away from her and started washing himself as best he could
  in the little basin. He dressed hurriedly realizing he must get out of the
  place as rapidly as possible.
  "Can you drop me back at the gas station?" Mandy asked.
  "It's exactly the opposite direction for me," he said, trying not to sound
  anxious as he made a bolt for the door. He passed Sylv on the stairs
  accompanied by a man. She stared at him more closely the second time. The
  Minister was back in his car a few moments later. He drove home quickly,
  but not before opening the windows in an attempt to get rid of the smell of
  stale tobacco and cheap perfume.
  Back in Lansdowne Road, he had a long shower before creeping into bed next
  to Joyce; she stirred only slightly.

  Charles drove his wife down to Ascot early to be sure to avoid the
  bumper-to-bumper traffic that always developed later in the day. With his
  height and bearing, Charles Hampton was made for tails and a topper, and
  Fiona wore a hat which on anyone less self-assured would have looked
  ridiculous. They had been invited to join the Macalpines for the afternoon,
  and when they arrived they found Sir Robert awaiting them in his pfivate
  box.
  "You must have left home early," said Charles, knowing the Macalpines lived
  in central London.
  "About thirty minutes ago," he said, laughing. Fiona looked politely
  incredulous.
 "I always come here by helicopter," he explained.
                76
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  They lunched on lobster and strawberries accompanied by a fine vintage
  champagne, which the waiter kept pouring and pouring. Charles might not
  have drunk quite so much had he not picked the winning horses in the
  first three races. He spent the fifth race stumped in a chair in the
  comer of the box, and only the noise of the crowd kept him from nodding
  off.
  If they hadn't waited for a farewell drink after the last race, Charles
  might have got away with it. He had forgotten that his host was returning
  by helicopter.
  The long tail of cars across Windsor Great Park all the way back to the
  highway made Charles very shorttempered. When he eventually reached the
  main road he put his Daimler into fourth gear. He didn't notice the
  police car until the siren sounded and he was directed to pull over.
 "Do be careful, Charles," whispered Fiona.
  "Don't worry, old girl, I know exactly how to deal with the law," he
  said, and wound down his window to addrem the policeman who stood by the
  car. "Do you realize who I am, officer?"
 "No, sir, but I would like you to accompany me--2'
 "Certainly not, officer, I am a member of..."
  "Do be quiet," said Fiona, "and stop making such a fool of yourself."
 "Parliament and I will not be treated . .
  "Have you any idea how pompous you sound, Charles?"
  "Perhaps you will be kind enough to accompany me to the station, sir?"
 "I want to speak to my lawyer."
 "Of course, sir. As soon as we reach the station."
  When Charles arrived at the constabulary he proved quite incapable of
  walking a straight line and refused to provide a blood sample.
 "I am the Conservative MP for Sussex Downs."
 Which will not help you, Fiona thought, but he was

               77
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 past listening and only demanded that she phone the family solicitor at
 Speechly, Bircham and Soames.
  After Ian Kimmins had spoken, first gently, then firmly, to Charles, his
  client eventually cooperated with the police.
  Once Charles had completed his written statement, Fiona drove him home,
  praying that his stupidity would pass unnoticed by the press.

 78
               7

 "YOU DON'T LIKE tum because he comes from the East End," said Simon, after
 she had read the letter.
  "That's not true," replied Elizabeth. "I don't like him because I don't
  trust him."
 "But you've only met him twice."
 "Once would have been quite enough."
  "Well, I can tell you I'm impressed by the not inconsiderable empire he's
  built up over the last ten years, and frankly it's an offer I can't
  refuse," said Simon, pocketing the letter.
 "But surely not at any cost?" said Elizabeth.
  "I won't be offered many chances like this," continued Simon. "And we
  could use the money. The belief people have that every Tory MP has some
  lucrative sinecure and two or three directorships is plain daft, and you
  know it. Not one other serious proposition has been put to me since I've
  been in the House, and another two thousand pounds a year for a monthly
  board meeting wouldcome in very handy."
 "And what else?"
 "What do you mean, what else?"
 "What else does Mr. Nethercote expect for his two

               79
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 thousand pounds? Don't be naive, Simon, he's not offering you that kind of
 money on a plate unless he's hoping to receive some scraps back."
  "Well, maybe I have a few contacts and a little influence with one or two
  people.
 "I'll bet."
 "You're just prejudiced, Elizabeth."
  "I'm against anything that might in the long run harm your career, Simon.
  Struggle on, but never sacrifice your integrity, as you're so fond of
  reminding the people of Coventry."

  When Charles Hampton's drunk-driving charge came up in front of the Reading
  Bench he listed himself as C. G. Hampton-no mention of MP. Under profession
  he entered "Banker."
  He came sixth in the list that morning, and on behalf of his absent client
  Ian Kimmins apologized to the Reading magistrates and assured them it would
  not happen again. Charles received a fifty-pound fine and was banned from
  driving for six months. The whole case was over in four minutes.
  When Charles was told the news by telephone later that day, he was
  appreciative of Kimmins's sensible advice and felt he had escaped lightly
  in the circumstances. He couldn't help remembering how many column inches
  George Brown, the Labour Foreign Secretary, had endured after a similar
  incident outside the Hilton Hotel.
 Fiona kept her own counsel.
  At the time, Fleet Street was in the middle of the "silly season," that
  period in the summer when the press is desperate for news. There had only
  been one cub reporter in the court when Charles's case came up, and even
  lie was surprised by the interest the nationals took in his little scoop.
  The pictures of Charles taken so discreetly outside the Hamptons' country
  home were glar80
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ingly large the following morning. Headlines ranged from "Six Months' Ban
 for Drunk Driving-Son of Earl" to "MP's Ascot Binge Ends in Heavy Fine."
 Even the Times mentioned the case on its home news page.
  By lunchtime the same day every Fleet Street newspaper had tried to
  contact Charles-and so had the Chief Whip. When he did track Charles down
  his advice was short and to the point. A junior Shadow Minister can
  survive that sort of publicity once--not twice.
  "Whatever you do, don't drive a car during the next six months, and don't
  ever drink and drive again."
  Charles concurred, and after a quiet weekend hoped he had heard the last
  of the case. Then he caught the headline on the front page of the Sussex
  Gazette: "Member Faces No-Confidence Motion." Mrs. Blenkinsop, the
  chairman of the Ladies' Luncheon Club, was proposing the motion, not for
  the drunken driving, but for deliberately misleading her about why he had
  been unable to fu)fill a speaking engagement at their annual luncheon.

  Raymond had become so used to receiving files marked "Strictly Private,"
  "Top Secret," or even "For Your Eyes Only" in his position as a
  Government under secretary that he didn't give a second thought to a
  letter marked "Confidential and Personal" even though it was written in
  a scrawled hand. He opened it while Joyce was boiling his eggs.
  "Four minutes and forty-five seconds, just the way you like them," she
  said as she returned from the kitchen and placed two eggs in front of
  him. "Are you all right, dear? You're white as a sheet."
  Raymond recovered quickly, sticking the letter into a pocket, before
  checking his watch. "Haven't time for the other egg," he said. "I'm
  already late for Cabinet committee, I must dash."
 Strange, thought Joyce, as her husband hurried to the

               81
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 door. Cabinet committees didn't usually meet until ten, and he hadn't even
 cracked open his first egg. She sat down and slowly ate her husband's
 breakfast, wondering why he had left all his mail behind.
  Once he was in the back of his official car Raymond read the letter again.
  It didn't take long.

  DEAR "MALCOLM,"
 "I enjoid our little get together the other evening and
 five hundrudpounds would help me toforget it once
 andfor all.
                       Love, MA ND Y

 P.S. I'll be in touch again soon.

  He read the letter once more and tried to compose his thoughts. There was
  no address on the top of the notebook paper. The envelope gave no clue as
  to where it had been posted.
  When his car arrived outside the Department of Employment Raymond remained
  in the back seat for several moments.
 "Are you feeling all right, sit?" his driver asked.
  "Fine, thank you," he replied, and jumped out of the car and ran all the
  way up to his office. As he passed his secretary's desk he barked at her,
  "No interruptions."
  "You won't forget Cabinet committee at ten o'clock, will you, Minister?"
  "No," replied Raymond sharply and slammed his office door. Once at his desk
  he tried to calm himself and to recall what he would have done had he been
  approached by a client as a barrister at the bar: First instruct a good
  solicitor. Raymond considered the two most capable lawyers in England to be
  Arnold Goodman and Sir Roger Pelham. Goodman was getting too high a profile
  for Raymond's liking whereas Pelham was just as sound but virtually unknown
  to the general pub82
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 lic. He called Pelham's office and made an appointment to see him that
 afternoon.
  Raymond hardly spoke in Cabinet committee, but as most of his colleagues
  wanted to express their own views, nobody noticed. As soon as the meeting
  was over, Raymond hurried out and took a taxi to High Holborn.
  Sir Roger Pelham rose from behind his large Victorian desk to greet the
  junior Minister.
  "I know you're a busy man, Gould," Pelham said as he fell back into his
  black leather chair, "so I shan't waste your time. Tell me what I can do
  for you."
  "It was kind of you to see me at such short notice," Raymond began, and
  without further word handed the letter over.
  "Thank you," the solicitor said courteously, and, pushing his half-moon
  spectacles higher up his nose, he read the note three times before he
  made any comment.
  "Blackmail is something we all detest," he began, "but it will be
  necessary for you to tell me the whole truth, and don't leave out any
  details. Please remember I am on your side. You'll recall only too well
  from your days at the bar what a disadvantage one labors under when one
  is in possession of only half the facts."
  The tips of Pelham's fingers touched, forming a small roof in front of
  his nose as he listened intently to Raymond's account of what had
  happened that night.
  "Could anyone else have seen you?" was Pelham's first question.
  Raymond thought back and then nodded. "Yes," he said. "'Yes, I'm afraid
  there was another girl who passed me on the stairs."
 Pelham read the letter once more.
  "My, immediate advice," he said, looking Raymond in the eye and speaking
  slowly and deliberately, "and you won't like it, is to do nothing."
 "But what do I say if she contacts the press?"
 "She will probably get in touch with someone from

               83
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Fleet Street anyway, even if you pay the five hundred pounds or however many
 other five hundred pounds you can afford. Don't imagine you're the first
 Minister to be blackmailed, Mr. Gould. Every homosexual in the House fives
 in daily fear of it. It's a game of hide and seek. Very few people other
 than saints have nothing to hide, and the problem with public life is that
 a lot of busybodies want to seek." Raymond remained silent, his anxiety
 showing. "Phone me on my private line immediately the next letter arrives,"
 said Pelham, scribbling a number on a piece of paper.
  "Thank you," said Raymond, relieved that his secret was at least shared
  with someone else. Pelham rose from behind his desk and accompanied Raymond
  to the door.
  Raymond left the lawyer's office feeling better, but he found it hard to
  concentrate on his work the rest of that day and slept only in fits and
  starts during the night. When he read the morning papers, he was horrified
  to see how much space was being given to Charles Hampton's peccadillo. What
  a field day they would be able to have with him. When the mail came, he
  searched anxiously for the scrawled handwriting. It was hidden under an
  American Express circular. He tore it open. The same hand was this time
  demanding that the five hundred pounds should be deposited at a post office
  in Pimlico. Sir Roger Pelham saw the Minister one hour later.
  Despite the renewed demand, the solicitor's advice remained the same.

  "Think about it, Simon," said Ronnie as they reached the boardroom door.
  "Two thousand pounds a year may be helpful, but if you take shares in my
  real estate company it would give you a chance to make some capital."
  "What did you have in mind?" asked Simon, buttoning up his stylish blazer,
  trying not to sound too excited.
  "Well, you've proved damned useful to me. Some of those people you bring to
  lunch wouldn't have allowed

               84
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 me past their front doors. I'd let you buy in cheap ... you could buy
 fifty thousand shares at one pound. When we go public in a couple of
 years' time you'd make a killing."
  "Raising fifty thousand pounds won't be easy, Ronnie."
  "When your bank manager has checked over my books he'll be only too happy
  to lend you the money."
  After the Midland Bank had studied the authorized accounts of Nethercote
  and Company and the manager had interviewed Simon, they agreed to his
  request, on the condition that Simon deposited the shares with the bank.
  How wrong Elizabeth was proving to be, Simon thought; and when Nethercote
  and Company performed record profits for the quarter he brought home a
  copy of the annual report for his wife to study.
  "Looks good," she had to admit. "But I still don't have to trust Ronnie
  Nethercote."

  When the annual meeting of the Sussex Downs Conservative Association came
  around in October Charles was pleased to learn that Mrs. Blenkinsop's "no
  confidence" motion had been withdrawn. The local press tried to build up
  the story, but the nationals were full of the Abervan coal mine disaster,
  in which one hundred and sixteen schoolchildren had lost their lives. No
  editor could find space for Sussex Downs.
  Charles delivered a thoughtful speech to his association, which was well
  received. During Question Time, he was relieved to find no embarrassing
  questions directed at him.
  When the Hamptons finally said goodnight, Charles took the chairman aside
  and inquired, "How did you manage it?"
  "I explained to Mrs. Blenkinsop," replied the chairman, "that if her
  motion of no confidence was discussed 85
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 at the annual meeting, it would be awflully hard for the member to back my
 recommendation that she should receive an Order of the British Empire in the
 New Year's Honors for service to the party. That shouldn't be too hard for
 you to pull off, should it, Charles?"

  Every time the phone rang, Raymond assumed it would be the press asking him
  if he knew someone called Mandy. Often it was a journalist, but all that
  was needed was a quotable remark on the latest unemployment figures, or a
  statement of where the Minister stood on devaluation of the pound.
  It was Mike Molloy, a reporter from the Daily Mirror, who was the first to
  ask Raymond what he had to say about a statement phoned in to his office by
  a girl called Mandy Page.
  "I have nothing to say on the subject. Please speak to Sir Roger Pelham, my
  solicitor," was the Under Secretary's succinct reply. The moment he put the
  phone down he felt queasy.
  A few minutes later the phone rang again. Raymond still hadn't moved. He
  picked up the receiver, his hand still shaking. Pelham confirmed that
  Molloy had been in touch with him.
 "I presume you made no comment," said Raymond.
  "On the contrary," replied Pelham. "I told him the truth."
 "What?" exploded Raymond.
  "Be thankful she picked a fair journalist, because I expect he'll let this
  one go. Fleet Street is not quite the bunch of shits everyone imagines them
  to be," Pelham said uncharacteristically, and added, "They also detest two
  things--crooked policemen and blackmailers. I don't think you'll see
  anything in the press tomorrow."
 Sir,,Roger was wrong-
  Raymond was standing outside his local newsstand the next morning when it
  opened at five-thirty, and he 86
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 surprised the proprietor by asking for a copy of the Daily Mirror. Raymond
 Gould was plastered all over page five saying, "Devaluation is not a
 course I can support while the unemployment figure remains so high." The
 photograph by the side of the article was unusually flattering.

  Simon Kerslake read a more detailed account of what the Minister had said
  on devaluation in the London Times and admired Raymond Gould's firm stand
  against what was beginning to look like inevitable Government policy.
  Simon glanced up from his paper and started to consider a ploy that might
  trap Gould. If he could make the Minister commit himself again and again
  on devaluation in front of the whole House, he knew that when the
  inevitable happened, Gould would be left with no choice but to resign.
  Simon began to pencil a question on the top of his paper before continu-
  ing to read the front page, but he couldn't concentrate, as his mind kept
  returning to the news Elizabeth had given him before she went to work.
  Once. again he looked up from the article, and this time a wide grin
  spread across his face. It was not the thought of embarrassing Raymond
  Gould that caused him to smile. A male chauvinist thought had crossed his
  normally liberal mind. "I hope it's a boy," he said out loud.

  Charles Hampton was glad to be behind the wheel again, and he had the
  grace to smile when Fiona showed him the photograph of the happy Mrs.
  Blenkinsop displaying her OBE outside Buckingham Palace to a reporter
  from the East Sussex News.

  It was six months to the day of his first meeting with Sir Roger Pelham
  that Raymond Gould received an account from the solicitor for services
  rendered-five hundred pounds.

                87
               8

 SIM014 LFFT THE HOUSE and drove himself to Whitechapel Road to attend a
 board meeting of Nethercote and Company. He arrived a few minutes after the
 four o'clock meeting had begun, quietly took his seat and listened to Ronnie
 Nethercote describing another coup.
  Ronnie had signed a contract that morning to take over four major city
  blocks at a cost of 26 million pounds with a guaranteed rental income of
  3.2 million per annum for the first seven years of a twenty-one-year lease.
  Simon formally congratulated him and asked if this made any difference in
  the company's timing for going public. He had advised Ronnie not to allow
  his company shares to be traded on the Stock Exchange until the Tories
  returned to power. "It may mean waiting a couple of years," he had told
  Ronnie, "but few people now doubt that the Tories will win the next
  election. Just look at the polls."
  "We're still planning to wait," Ronnie now assured him. "Although the
  injection of cash that the shares would bring in would be useful. But my
  instinct is to

               88
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 follow your advice and wait to see if the Conservatives win the next
 election."
  "I am sure that's sound," said Simon, looking around at the other board
  members.
 "if they don't win, I can't wait that much longer."
  "I wouldn't disagree with that decision either, Mr. Chairman," said
  Simon.
  When the meeting was over he joined Nethercote in his office for a drink.
  "I want to thank you," Ronnie said, "for that introduction to Harold
  Samuel and Hugh Ainesworth. It made the deal go through much more
  smoothly."
  "Does that mean you'll allow me to purchase some more shares?"
  Ronnie hesitated. "Why not? You've earned them. But only another ten
  thousand. Don't get ahead of yourself, Simon, or the other directors may
  become jealous."
  In the car on the way to pick up Elizabeth, Simon decided to take a
  second mortgage out on the house in Beaufort Street to raise the extra
  cash needed for the new shares. Elizabeth still made little secret of her
  feelings about Ronnie, and now that she was pregnant, Simon decided not
  to worry her with the details.

  "If the Government did a turnabout and devalued the pound, would the
  Under Secretary find it possible to remain in office?"
  Raymond Gould, the Under Secretary for Employment, stiffened when he
  heard Simon Kerslake's question.
  Raymond's grasp of the law and his background knowledge of the subject
  made all except the extremely articulate or highly experienced wary of
  taking him on. Nevertheless, he had one Achilles heel arising from his
  firmly stated views in Full Employment at Any Cost?. any

               89
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 suggestion that the Government would devalue the pound. Time and again eager
 backbenchers would seek to tackle him on the subject. But ' once more it was
 Simon Kerslake who embarrassed his opponent.
  As always, Raymond gave the standard reply: "The policy of Her Majesty's
  Government is one hundred percent against devaluation, and therefore the
  question does not arise."
 "Wait and see," shouted Kerslake.
  "Order," said the Speaker, rising from his seat and turning toward Simon as
  Raymond sat down. "The Honorable Member knows all too well he must not ad-
  dress the House from a sedentary position. The Under Secretary of State."
  Raymond rose again. "This Government believes in a strong pound, which
  still remains our best hope for keeping unemployment figures down."
  "But what would you do if Cabinet does go ahead and devalue?" Joyce asked
  him when she read her husband's reply to Kerslake's question reported in
  the London Times the next morning.
  Raymond was already facing the fact that devaluation looked. more likely
  every day. A strong dollar, causing imports to be at a record level,
  coupled with a run of strikes during the summer of '67, was causing foreign
  bankers to ask "When," not "If."
  "I'd have to resign," he said in reply to Joyce's question.
 "Why? No other Minister will."
  "I'm afraid Kerslake is right. I'm on the record and he's made sure
  everybody knows it. Don't worry, Harold will never devalue. He's assured me
  of that many times."
 "He only has to change his mind once."

  The great orator lain Macleod once remarked that it was the first two
  minutes of a speech that decided one's fate. One either grasps the House
  and commands it, or 90
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dithers and loses it, and once the House is lost it can rarely be brought
 to heel.
  When Charles Hampton was invited to present the winding-up speech for the
  Opposition during the debate on the Environment, he felt he had prepared
  himself well. Although he knew he could not expect to convert Government
  backbenchers to his cause, he hoped the press would acknowledge that he
  had won the argument and embarrassed the Government. The Administration
  was already rocking over daily rumors of devaluation and economic
  trouble, and Charles was confident that this was a chance to make his
  name.
  When full debates take place on the floor of the House, the Opposition
  spokesman is called upon to make his final comments at nine o'clock from
  the dispatch box--an oblong wooden box edged in brassresting on the table
  in between the two front benches. At nine-thirty a Government Minister
  winds up.
  When Charles rose and put his notes on the dispatch box he intended to
  press home the Tory Party case on the Goveniment's economic record, the
  fatal consequences of devaluation, the record inflation, coupled with
  record borrowing and a lack of confidence in Britain unknown in any
  member's lifetime.
  He stood his full height and stared down belligerently at the Government
  benches.
 "Mr. Speaker," he began, "I can't think. .
  "Then don't bother to speak," someone shouted from the Labour benches.
  Laughter broke out as Charles tried to compose himself, cursing his
  initial overconfidence. He began again.
 "I can't imagine..."
  "No imagination either," came another voice. "Typical Tory."
 ". . . why this subject was ever put before the House."
  "Certainty not for you to give us a lesson in public speaking."

                91
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

 "Order," growled the Speaker, but it was too late.
  The: House was lost, and Charles stumbled through thirty minutes of
  embarrassment until no one but the Speaker was listening to a word he
  said. Several frontbench Ministers had their feet up on the table and
  their eyes closed. Backbenchers sat chattering among themselves waiting
  for the ten o'clock vote: the ultimate humiliation the House affords to
  its worst debaters. The Speaker had to call for order several times
  during Charles's speech, once rising to rebuke noisy members, "The House
  does its reputation no service by behaving in this way." But his plea
  fell on deaf ears as the conversations continued. At nine-thirty Charles
  sat down in a cold sweat. A few of his own backbenchers managed to raise
  an unconvincing, "Hear, hear."
  When a Govemment spokesman opened his speech by describing Charles's
  offering as among the most pathetic he had heard in a long political
  career, he may well have been exaggerating, but from the expressions on
  the Tory front benches not many Opposition members were going to disagree
  with him.

  Elizabeth looked up and smiled as her husband came into the room. "I've
  delivered over a thousand children in the past five years, but none have
  given me the thrill this one did. I thought you'd like to know mother and
  child are doing well."
  Simon took Elizabeth in his arms. "How long do I have to wait to learn
  the truth?"
 "It's a boy," she said.
  "Congratulations, darling," said Simon. "I'm so proud of you." He pushed
  her hair back tenderly. "So it's to be Peter, not Lucy."
  "Certainly hope so, that is if you don't want the poor little blighter
  teased all his life."
 A mirse joined them holding a small child almost

               92
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 swamped in a little sheet and blanket. Simon took his son in his arms and
 stared into the large blue eyes.
 "He looks like a future Prime Minister to me.'
  "Gocd heavens, no," said Elizabeth. "He looks far too intelligent to
  consider anything as silly as that." She put her arms out at full stretch
  and Simon reluctantly released his son into the care of his mother.
  Simon sat on the end of the bed admiring his wife and firstbom, as
  Elizabeth prepared to feed him.
  "Perhaps it will be possible for you to take a break for a while., You
  deserve a holiday."
  "Not a chance," said Elizabeth, as she watched her son close his eyes.
  "I'm back on duty roster next week. Don't forget we still need my income
  while they pay members of Parliament such a pittance."
  Simon didn't reply. He realized that if he was ever going to convince his
  wife to slow down, he would have to take a more gentle approach.
 "Peter and I think you're wonderful," said Simon.
  Elizabeth looked down at her child. "I don't think Peter's sure yet, but
  at least he's sleeping on it."

  The decision was finally made by the inner Cabinet of twelve on Thursday,
  November 16, 1967. By Friday every bank clerk in Tokyo was privy to the
  inner Cabinet's closest secret, and by the time the Prime Minister made
  tile announcement official on Saturday afternoon, the Bank of England had
  lost 600 million dollars of reserves on the foreign-exchange market.
  At the time of the Prime Minister's statement, Raymond was in Leeds
  conducting his twice-monthly constituency office hours. He was in the
  process of explaining the new housing bill to a young married couple when
  Fred Padgett, his campaign manager, burst into the room.
 "Raymond, sorry to interrupt you, but I thought

               93
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 you'd want to know immediately. Number Ten has just announced that the pound
 has been devalued from $2.80 to $2.40." The sitting member was momentarily
 stunned, the local housing problem driven from his mind. He stared blankly
 across the table at the two constituents who had come to seek his advice.
  "Will you please excuse me for a moment, Mr. Higginbottom?" Raymond asked
  courteously. "I must make a phone call." The moment turned out to be
  fifteen minutes, in which time Raymond had made contact with a senior civil
  servant from the Treasury and had all the details confirmed. He called
  Joyce and told her not to answer the phone until he arrived back home. It
  was several minutes until he was composed enough to open his office door.
  "How many people are still waiting to see me, Fred?" he asked.
  "After the Higginbottoms there's only the mad major, still convinced that
  Martians are about to land on the roof of Leeds Town Hall."
  "Why would they want to come to Leeds first?" asked Raymond, trying to hide
  his growing anxiety with false humor.
  "Once they've captured Yorkshire, the rest would be easy."
  "Hard to find fault with that argument. Nevertheless, tell the major I'm
  deeply concerned but I need to study his claim in more detail and to seek
  further advice from the Ministry of Defense. Make an appointment for him to
  see me during my next office hours, and by then I should have a strategic
  plan ready."
  Fred Padgett grinned. "That will give him something to tellhis friends
  about for at least two weeks."
  Raymond returned to Mr. and Mrs. Higginbottom and assured them he would
  have their housing problem sorted out within a few days. He made a note on
  his file to ring the Leeds borough housing officer.

                94
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "What an afternoon," exclaimed Raymond after the door had closed behind
  them. "One wife-beating, one electricity turned off by the Electricity
  Board with four children under ten in the house, one pollution of the
  Aire River, one appalling housing problem, never forgetting the mad major
  and his imminent Martians. And now the devaluation news."
  "How can you remain so calm under the circumstances?" Fred Padgett asked.
  "Because I can't afford to let anyone know how I really feel."
  After his office hours Raymond would normally have gone around to the
  local pub for a pint and an obligatory chat with the locals, which would
  give him a chance to catch up on what had been happening in Leeds during
  the past few weeks. But on this occasion he bypassed the pub and returned
  quickly to his parents' home.
  Joyce told him the phone had rung so often that she had finally taken it
  off the hook without letting his mother know the real reason.
 "Very sensible," said Raymond.
 "What are you going to do?" she asked.
 "I shall resign, of course."
"Whi do that, Raymond? It will only harm your Y career."
  "You may turn out to be right, but that won't stop me.
  "But you're only just beginning to get on top of your work."
  "Joyce, without trying to sound pompous, I know I have many failings, but
  I'm not a coward, and I'm certainly not so self-seeking as totally to
  desert any principles I might have."
  "You know, youjust sounded Re a man who believes he's destined to become
  Prime Minister."
  "A moment ago you said it would harm my chances. Make up your mind."

               95
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "I have," she said.
  Raymond smiled wanly before retreating to his study to compose a short
  handwritten letter,

              Saturday, November 18, 1967

 Dear Prime Minister,
   Afteryour announcement this afternoon on devalu-
 ation and the stand I have continually taken on the issue I am left with
 no choice but to resign my position as Under Secretary of State for
 Employment. I' would like to thank you for having given me the
 opportunity to serve in your administration. Be assured that I shall
 continue to support the Government on all other issuesfrom the
 backbenches.

                   Yours,
                   RA YMOND GOULD

  When the red box arrived at the house that Saturday night, Raymond
  instructed the messenger to deliver the letter to Number 10 immediately.
  As he opened the box for the last time he reflected that his department
  was answering questions on employment in the House that Monday. He
  wondered who would be chosen to take his place.
  Because of the red tape surrounding devaluation, the Prime Minister did
  not get around to reading Raymond"s letter until late Sunday morning. The
  Goulds' phone was still off the hook when an anxious Fred Padgett was
  heard knocking on the front door later that day.
  "Don't answer it," said Raymond. "It's bound to be another journalist."
  "No, it's not, it's only Fred," said Joyce, peeping through an opening
  in the curtain.
  She opened the door. "Where the hell's Raymond?" were Fred's first words.

               96
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Right here," said Raymond, appearing from the kitchen holding the Sunday
  newspapers.
  "The Prime Minister has been trying to contact you all morning."
  Raymond turned around and replaced the phone on the hook, picked it up a
  few seconds later and checked the tone before dialing London WHI 4433. The
  Prime Minister was on the line in moments. He sounded calm enough, thought
  Raymond.
  "Have you issued any statement to the press, Raymond?"
  "No, I wanted to be sure you had received my letter first."
  "Good. Please don't mention your resignation to anyone until we've met.
  Could you be at Downing Street by eight o'clock?"
 "Yes, Prime Minister."
 "Remember, not a word to the press."
 Raymond heard the phone click.
  Within the hour he was on his way to London, and he arrived at his house in
  Lansdowne Road a little after seven. The phone was ringing again. He wanted
  to ignore the insistent burr-burr but thought it might be Downing Street.
 He picked the phone up. "Hello."
 "Is that Raymond Gould?" said a voice.
 "Who's speaking?" asked Raymond.
 "Walter Terry, Daily Mail. "
 "I am not going to say anything," said Raymond.
  "Do you feel the Prime Minister was right to devalue?"
 "I said nothing, Walter."
 "Does that mean you are going to resign?"
 "Walter, nothing."
  "Is it true you have already handed in your resignation?"

               97
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Ra: mond hesitated.
   Y
 "I I , hought so," said Terry.
  "I said nothing," spluttered Raymond and slammed down the phone-before
  lifting it back off the hook.
  He quickly washed and changed his shirt before leaving the house. He nearly
  missed the note that was lying on the doormat, and he wouldn't have stopped
  to open it had the envelope not been embossed with large black letters
  across the left hand comer-"Prime Minister." Raymond ripped it open. The
  handwritten note from a secretary asked him on his arrival to enter by the
  rear entrance of Downing Street, not by the front door. A small map was
  enclosed. Raymond was becoming weary of the whole exercise.
  Two more journalists were waiting by the gate. They followed him to his
  car.
 "Have you resigned, Minister?" asked the first.
 "No comment."
 "Are you on your way to see the Prime Minister?"
  Raymond did not reply and leaped into his car. He drove off so quickly that
  the pursuing journalists were left with no chance of catching him.
  Twelve minutes later, at five to eight, he was seated in the anteroom of
  Number 10 Downing Street. As eight struck he was taken through to Harold
  Wilson's study. He was surprised to find the senior minister in his own
  Department, the Secretary of State for Employment, seated in a comer of the
  room.
 "Ray," said the Prime Minister. "How are you?"
 "I'm well, thank you, Prime Minister."
  "I was sorry to receive your letter and thoroughly understand the position
  you are in, but I hope perhaps we can work something out."
 "Work something out?" Raymond repeated, puzzled.
  "Well, we all realize devaluation is a problem for you after 1,V1
  Fmployment at A n.Y Cost? but I felt perhaps a move to the Foreign Office
  as Minister of State might be

               98
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 a palatable way out of the dilemma. It's a promotion you've well earned."
  Raymond hesitated. The Prime Minister continued, "It may interest you to
  know that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has also resigned, but will be
  moving to the Home Office."
  "I am surprised," said Raymond. "But in my case, I do not consider it
  would be the honorable thing to--~'
  The Prime Minister waved his hand. "What with the problems we are about
  to tackle in Rhodesia and Europe, your legal skills would come in very
  useful."
  For the first time in his life Raymond detested politics.

  Mondays usually get off to a quiet start in the Commons. The Whips never
  plan for any contentious business to be debated, remembering that members
  are still arriving back from their constituencies all over the country.
  The House is seldom full before the early evening. But the knowledge that
  the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be making a statement on
  devaluation at three-thirty insured that the Commons would be packed long
  before that hour.
  The Commons filled up quickly, and by two forty-five there was not a seat
  to be found. The green benches accommodatingjust four hundred and
  twenty-seven members had deliberately been restored as they were before
  the Germans had bombed the Palace of Westminster on May 10, 194 1. The
  intimate theatrical atmosphere of the House had remained intact. Sir
  Giles Gilbert Scott could not resist highlighting some of the Gothic
  decor of Barry, but he concurred with Churchills view that to enlarge the
  chamber would only destroy the packed atmosphere of great occasions.
  Some members huddled were even up on the steps by the Speaker's canopied
  chair and around the legs of the chairs of the clerks at the table. One
  or two perched like 99
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 unfed sparrows on the empty petition bay behind the Speaker's chair.
  Raymond Gould rose to answer Question Number 7 on the agenda, an innocent
  enough inquiry concerning unemployment benefits for women. As soon as he
  reached the dispatch box, the first cries of "Resign" came from the Tory
  benches. Raymond couldn't hide his embarrassment. Even those on the back
  benches could see he'd gone scarlet. It didn't help that he hadn't slept
  the previous night following the agreement he had come to with the Prime
  Minister. He answered the question, but the calls for his resignation did
  not subside. The Opposition fell silent as he sat down, only waiting for
  him to rise for a further question. The next question on the agenda for
  Raymond to answer was from Simon Kerslake; it came a few minutes after
  three. "What analysis has been made by your department of the special
  factors contributing to increasing unemployment in the Midlands?"
  Raymond checked his brief before replying. "The closure of two large
  factories in the area, one in the Honorable Member's constituency, has
  exacerbated local unemployment. Both of these factories specialized in
  car components, which have suffered from the Leyland strike."
  Simon Kerslake rose slowly from his place to ask his supplementary
  question. The Opposition benches waited in eager anticipation. "But
  surely the Minister remembers informing the House, in reply to my
  adjournment debate last April, that devaluation would drastically
  increase unemployment in the Midlands, indeed in the whole country. If
  the honorable gentleman's words are to carry any conviction, why hasn't
  he resigned?" Simon sat down as the Tory benches demanded, "Why, why,
  why?"
 "My speech to the House on that occasion is being

               100
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 quoted out of context, and the circumstances have since changed."
  "They certainly have," shouted a number of Conservatives, and the benches
  opposite Raymond exploded with demands that he give up his office.
  "Order, order," shouted the Speaker into the tide of noise.
  Simon rose again, while everyone on the Conservative benches remained
  seated to insure that no one else was called. They were now hunting as a
  pack.
  Everyone's eyes switched back and forth between the two men, watching the
  dark, assured figure of Kerslake once again jabbing his forefinger at the
  bowed head of Raymond Gould, who was now only praying for the clock to
  reach 3:30.
  "Mr. Speaker, during that debate, which he now seems happy to orphan, the
  Honorable Gentleman was only echoing the views he so lucidly expressed in
  his book Fi4ll Employment at Any Cost? Can those views have altered so
  radically in three years, or is his desire to remain in office so great
  that he now realizes his employment can be achieved at any cost?"
 The Opposition benches chanted, "Resign, resign."
  "This question has nothing to do with what I said to the House on that
  occasion," retorted Raymond angrily.
  Simon was up in a flash and the Speaker called him for a third time.
  "Is the Honorable Gentleman telling the House that he has one set of moral
  standards when he speaks, and yet another when he writes?"
  The House was now in total uproar and few members heard Raymond say, "No,
  sir, I try to be consistent."
  The Speaker rose and the noise subsided slightly. He looked about him with
  an aggrieved frown. "I realize the House feels strongly on these matters,
  but I must ask the Honorable Member for Coventry Central to withdraw

               101
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 his remark suggesting that the Minister has behaved dishonorably."
  Simon rose and retracted his statement at once, but the damage had been
  done. Nor did it stop members from calling "Resign" until Raymond left the
  chamber a few minutes later.

  Simon sat back smugly as Gould left the chamber. Conservative members
  turned to nod their acknowledgment of his complete annihilation of the
  Government's Under Secretary of State. The Chancellor of the Exchequer rose
  to deliver his prepared statement on devaluation. Simon listened with
  horror to the Chancellor's opening words:
  "The Honorable Member for Leeds North handed in his resignation to the
  Prime Minister on Saturday evening but graciously agreed not to make this
  public until I had had an opportunity to address the House."
  The Chancellor went on to praise Raymond for his work in the Department of
  Employment and to wish him well on the back benches.

  Jamie Sinclair visited Raymond in his room immediately after the Chancellor
  had finished answering questions. He found him slumped at his desk, a
  vacant look on his face. Sinclair had come to express his admiration for
  the way Raymond had conducted himself.
  "It's kind of you," said Raymond, who was still shaking from the
  experience.
  "I wouldn't like to be in Kerslake's shoes at this moment," said Jamie.
  "Simon must feel the biggest shit in town."'
  "There's no way he could have known," said Raymond. "He'd certainly done
  his homework and the questions were right on target. I suspect we would
  have approached the situation in the same way given the circumstances."

                102
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Several other members dropped in to commiserate with Raymond, after which
  he stopped by his old department to say farewell to his team before he
  went home to spend a quiet evening with Joyce.
  There was a long silence before the Permanent Secretary ventured an
  opinion: "I hope, sir, it will not be long before you return to
  Government. You have certainly made our lives hard, but for those you
  ultimately serve you have undoubtedly made life easier." The sincerity
  of the statement touched Raymond, especially as the civil servant was
  already serving a new master.
  As the days passed, it felt strange to be able to sit down and watch
  television, read a book, even go for a walk and not be perpetually
  surrounded by red boxes and ringing phones.
  He was to receive over a hundred letters from colleagues, in the House
  but he kept only one:

Vt1v
2rrrm
$Effih
8"T"W

               Monday, November 20,1967

 Dear Gould,
  I owe you a profound apology. Weallinourpoliti-
 cal 1!ft make monumental mistakes about people and I certainly made one
 today.
  I believe that most members of the House have a
 genuine desire to serve the country, and there can be no more honorable
 way ofproving it than by resigning when one feels one's party has taken
 a wrong course.
  I envy the respect in which the whole House now
 holds you.
                 Yours sincerely,
                 SIMON KERSLAKE

               103
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  When Raymond returned to the Commons that afternoon, he was cheered by the
  members of both sides from the moment he entered the chamber. The minister
  who had been addressing the House at the time had no choice but to wait
  until Raymond had taken a seat on the back benches.

 104
               9

 SIMON HAD ALREADY LEFT when Edward Heath called his home. It was another
 hour before Elizabeth was able to pass on tile message that the Party
 Leader wanted to see him at two-thirty.
  Charles was at the bank when the Chief Whip called, asking if they could
  meet at two-thirty that afternoon before Commons business began.
  Charles felt like a schoolboy who had been told the headmaster expected
  him to be in his study after lunch. The last time the Chief Whip had
  phoned was to ask him to make his unfortunate winding-up speech, and they
  had hardly spoken since. Charles was apprehensive; he always preferred
  to be told what a problem was immediately. He decided to leave the bank
  early and catch lunch at the House to be sure he was not late for his
  afternoon appointment.
  Charles joined some of his colleagues at the large table in the center
  of the members' dining room and took the only seat available, next to
  Simon Kerslake. The two men had not really been on good terms since the
  Heath-Maudling Leadership contest.

               105
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Charles did not care much for Kerslake. He had once told Fiona that he was
  one of the new breed of Tories who tried a little too hard, and he had not
  been displeased to see him embarrassed over the Gould resignation. Not that
  he expressed his true feelings to anyone other than Fiona.
  Simon watched Charles sit down and wondered how much longer the Party could
  go on electing Etonian guardsmen who spent more time making money in the
  city and then spending it at Ascot than they did working in the House-not
  that it was an opinion he would have voiced to anyone but his closest
  confidants.
  The discussion over the lunch table centered on the remarkable run of
  by-election results the Tories had had with three key marginal seats. It
  was obvious that most of those around the table were eager for a General
  Election, although the Prime Minister did not have to call one for at least
  another three years.
 Neither Charles nor Simon ordered coffee.

  At two twenty-five Charles watched the Chief Whip leave his private table
  in the comer of the room and turn to walk toward his office. Charles
  checked his watch and waited a moment before leaving as his colleagues
  began a heated discussion about entry into the Common Market.
  He strolled past the smoking room before turning left at the entrance to
  the library. Then he continued down the old Ways and Means corridor until
  he passed the Opposition Whip's office on his left. Once through the
  swinging doors he entered the members' lobby, which he crossed to reach the
  Government Whip's office. He strode into the secretary's door. Miss Norse,
  the Chief's invaluable secretary, stopped typing.
  "I have an appointment with the Chief Whip," said Charles.

               106
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Yes, Mr. Hampton, he is expecting you. Please go through." The typing
  recommenced immediately.
  Charles walked on down the corridor and found the Chief Whip blocking his
  own doorway.
 "Come on in, Charles. Can I offer you a drink?"
  "No, thank you," replied Charles, not wanting to delay the news any
  longer.
  The Chief Whip poured himself a gin and tonic before sitting down.
  "I hope what I'm about to tell you will be looked upon as good news." The
  Chief Whip paused and took a gulp of his drink. "The Leader thinks you
  might benefit from a spell in the Whip's office, and I must say I would
  be delighted if you felt able tojoin us...."
  Charles wanted to protest but checked himself. "And give up my
  Environment post?"
  "Oh, yes, and more, of course, because Mr. Heath expects all whips to
  forgo any outside employment as well. Working in this office is not a
  part-time occupation."
  Charles needed a moment to compose his thoughts. "And if I turn it down,
  will I retain my post at Environment?"
  "That's not for me to decide," said the Chief Whip. "But it is no secret
  that Ted Heath is planning several changes in the period before the next
  election."
 "How long do I have to consider the offer?"
  "Perhaps you could let me know your decision by Question Time tomorrow."
  "Yes, of course. Thank you," said Charles. He left the Chief Whip's
  office and drove to Eaton Square.

  Simon also arrived at two twenty-five, five minutes before his meeting
  with the Party Leader. He had tried not to speculate as to why Heath
  wanted to see him, in case the meeting only resulted in disappointment.

               107
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Douglas Hurd, the head of the private office, ushered him straight through
 to the Conservative Leader.
  "Simon, how would you like to join the Environment team?" It was typical
  of Heath not to waste any time on small talk, and the suddenness of the
  offer took Simon by surprise. He recovered quickly.
  "Thank you very much," he said. "I mean, er ... yes ... thank you."
  "Good, let's see you put your back into it, and be sure the results at
  the dispatch box are as effective as they have been from the back
  benches."
  The door was opened once again by the private secretary; the interview
  was clearly over. Simon found himself back in the corridor at two
  thirty-three. It was several moments before the offer sank in. Then,
  elated, he made a dash for the nearest phone. He dialed the St. Mary's
  switchboard and asked if he could be put through to Doctor Kerslake. As
  he spoke, his voice was almost drowned by the sound of the division
  bells, signaling the start of the day's business at two thirty-five,
  following prayers. A woman's voice came on the line.
 "Is that you, darling?" asked Simon above the din.
  "No, sir. It's the switchboard operator. Doctor Kerslake's in the
  operating room."
 "Is there any hope of getting her out?"
 "Not unless you're in labor, sir."

  "What brings you home so early?" asked Fiona as Charles came charging
  through the front door.
  "I need to talk to someone." Fiona could never be sure if she ought to
  be flattered, but she didn't express any opinion. It was all too rare
  these days to have his company, and she was delighted.
  Charles repeated to his wife as nearly verbatim as possible his
  conversation with the Chief Whip. Fiona remained silent when Charles had
  come to the end of his

               108
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 monologue. "Well, what's your opinion?" he asked anxiously.
  "All because of one bad speech from the dispatch box," Fiona commented
  wryly.
  "I agree," said Charles, "but nothing can be gained by tramping over that
  ground again. And if I turn it down, and wewin the next election ... T'
 "You'll be left out in the cold."
 "More to the point, stranded on the back benches."
  "Charles, politics has always been your first love," said Fiona, touching
  him gently on the cheek. "So I don't see that you have a choice, and if
  that means some sacrifices, you'll never hear me complain."
  Charles rose from his chair saying, "Thank you, my dear. I'd better go
  and see Derek Spencer immediately."
  As Charles turned to leave, Fiona added, "And don't forget, 'Fed Heath
  became Leader of the party via the Whip's office."
 Charles smiled for the first time that day.
 "A quiet dinner at home tonight?" suggested Fiona.
 "Can't tonight," said Charles. "I've got a late vote."
  Fiona sat alone wondering if she would spend the rest of her life waiting
  up for a man who didn't appear to need her affection.

 At last they put him through.
 "Let's have a celebration dinner tonight."
 "Why'-," asked Elizabeth.
  "Because I've been invited to join the front-bench team to cover the
  Environment."
  "Congratulations, darling, but what does 'Environment' consist of?"
  "Housing, urban land, transport, devolution, water, historic buildings,
  Stansted or Maplin airport, the Channel tunnel, royal parks . . ."
 "Have they left anything for anyone else to do?"

               109
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "That's only half of it-if it's out-of-doors, it's mine. I'll tell you
  the rest over dinner."
  "Oh, bell, I don't think I can get away until eight tonightand we'd have
  to get a baby-sitter. Does that come under Environment, Simon?"
  "Sure does," he said, laughing. "I'll fix it and book a table at the
  Grange for eight-thirty."
 "Have you got a ten o'clock vote?"
 "Aftaid so."
  "I see, coffee with the baby-sitter again," she said. She paused.
  "Simon."
 "Yes, darling."
 "I'm very proud of you."

  Derek Spencer sat behind his massive partner's desk in Threadneedle
  Street and listened intently to what Charles had to say.
  "You will be a great loss to the bank," were the chairman's first words.
  "But no one here would want to hold up your political career, least of
  all me."
  Charles noticed that Spencer could not look him in the eye as he spoke.
  "Can I assume that I would be invited back on the board if for any reason
  my situation changed at the Commons?"
  "Of course," said Spencer. "There was no need for you to ask such a
  question."
  "That's kind of you," said Charles, genuinely relieved. He stood up,
  leaned forward and shook hands rather stiffly.
 "Good luck, Charles," were Spencer's parting words.

  "Does that mean you can no longer stay on the board?"' asked Ronnie
  Nethercote when he heard Simon's news.
  "No, not while I'm in Opposition and only a Shadow spokesman. But if we
  win the next election and I'm of-
  
  
               110
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 fered a job in Government, I would have to resign immediately."
 "So I've got your services for another three years?"
  "Unless the Prime Minister picks an earlier date to run, or we lose the
  next election."
  "No fear of the latter," said Ronnie, "I knew I'd picked a winner the day
  I met you, and I don't think you'll ever regret joining my board."

  Over the months that followed, Charles was surprised to find how much he
  enjoyed working in the Whip's office, although he had been unable to hide
  from Fiona his anger when he discovered it was Kerslake who had captured
  his old job at Environment. The order, discipline and camaraderie of the
  job brought back memories of his military days in the Grenadier Guards.
  Charles's duties were manifold, ranging from checking that members were
  all present in their committees to sitting on the front bench in the
  Commons and picking out the salient points members made in their speeches
  to the House. He also had to keep an eye out for any signs of dissension
  or rebellion on his own benches while remaining abreast of what was
  happening on the other side of the House. In addition he had fifty of his
  own members from the Midlands area to shepherd, and had to be certain
  that they never missed a vote. Each Thursday he passed out a sheet of
  paper showing what votes would be coming up the following week. The main
  debates were underlined with three lines. Less important debates, those
  with two lines under them, made it possible for a member not to be
  present for a vote if paired with a member from the opposite party, as
  long as the Whip's office had been informed. The few that had only one
  line underneath were not mandatory.
  Charles already knew that there were no circumstances under which a
  member was allowed to miss a "three-line whip," unless he had died and
  even then, the
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Chief Whip told him, the Whip's office required a death certificate.
  "See that none of your members ever misses one," the Chief Whip warned
  him, "or they'll wish they did have a death certificate."
  As whips are never called on to make speeches in the House at any time,
  Charles seemed to have discovered the role for which he was best cut out.
  Fiona reminded him once again that Ted Heath had jumped from the Whip's
  office to Shadow Chancellor. She was delighted to see how involved her
  husband had become with Commons life, but she hated going to bed each
  night and regularly falling asleep before he arrived home.

  Simon also enjoyed his new appointment from the first moment. As the
  junior member of the Environment team he was given transport as his
  special subject. During the first year he read books, studied pamphlets,
  held meetings with national transport chairmen from air, sea and rail,
  and worked long into the night trying to master his new brief. Simon was
  one of those rare members who, after only a few weeks, looked as if he
  had always been on the front bench.
  Peter was one of those noisy babies who after only a few weeks sounded
  as if he was already on the front bench.
  "Perhaps he's going to be a politician after all," concluded Elizabeth,
  staring down at her son.
 "What has changed your mind?" asked Simon.
  "He never stops shouting at everyone, he's totally preoccupied with
  himself, and he falls asleep as soon as anyone else offers an opinion."
  "They're being rude about my firstborn," said Simon, picking up his son
  and immediately regretting the move as soon as he felt Peter's bottom.
 Elizabeth had been surprised to find how much time

               112
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Simon had put aside for his son, and she even admitted, when interviewed
 by the Littlehampton News, that the member could change a diaper as deftly
 as any midwife.
  By the time Peter could crawl he was into everything, including Simon's
  private briefcase, where he deposited sticky chocolates, rubber bands,
  string and even his favorite toy.
  Simon once opened the briefcase in full view of a meeting of the Shadow
  Environment team to discover Teddy Heath, Peter's much battered bear,
  lying on the top of his papers. He removed the stuffed animal to reveal
  his "plans for a future Tory government."
  "A security risk?" suggested the Opposition Leader with a grin.
 "My son, or the bear?" inquired Simon.
  By their second years, as Peter was feeling confident enough to walk,
  Simon was beginning to have his own views on the issues facing the Party.
  As each month passed, they both grew in confidence, and all Simon now
  wanted was for Harold Wilson to call a General Election.
 All Peter wanted was a soccer ball.

  Talk of a General Election was suddenly in the air. Just as it looked as
  though the Conservatives were gaining in the opinion polls, the Labour
  Party had a string of by-election victories in early 1970.
  When May's opinion polls confirmed the trend to Labour, Harold Wilson
  visited the Queen at Buckingham Palace and asked her to dissolve
  Parliament. The date of the General Election was set for June 18, 1970.
  The press was convinced that Wilson had got it right again, and would
  lead his party to victory for the third time in a row, a feat no man in
  political history had managed. Every Conservative knew that would spell
  the end of Edward Heath's leadership of his party.

               113
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Three weeks later political history was not made, for the Conservatives
  captured Parliament with an overall majority of thirty seats. Her Majesty
  the Queen invited Edward Heath to attend her at the Palace and asked him to
  form a government. He kissed the hands of his sovereign and accepted her
  commission.
  Simon Kerslake managed a four-figure majority for the first time when he
  won Coventry Central by 2,118.
  When Fiona was asked by the old earl how many votes Charles had won by on
  this occasion, she said she couldn't be certain, but she did recall
  Charles's telling a journalist it was more than the other candidates put
  together.
  Raymond Gould suffered an adverse swing of only 2 percent and was returned
  with a 10,416 majority. The people of Leeds admire independence in a
  member, especially when it comes to a matter of principle.

 114
              10

 WHEN SIMON AWOKE on the Friday morning after the election he felt both
 exhausted and exhilarated. He lay in bed trying to imagine how those
 Labour Ministers, who only the previous day had assumed they would be
 returning to their departments, must be feeling now.
  Elizabeth stiffed, let out a small sleep-filled sigh and turned over.
  Simon stared down at his wife. In the four years of their marriage she
  had lost none of her attraction for him, and he still took pleasure in
  just looking at her sleeping form. Her long fair hair rested on her
  shoulders and her slim, firm figure curved gently beneath the silk
  nightgown. He started stroking her back and watched her slowly come out
  of sleep. When she finally awoke she turned over and he took her in his
  arms.
  "I admire your energy," she said. "If you're still fit after three weeks
  on the trail I can hardly claim to have a headache."
  He kissed her gently, delighted to catch a moment of privacy between the
  lunacy of election and the anticipation of office. No voter was going to
  interrupt this rare moment of pleasure.
  "Daddy," said a voice, and Simon quickly turned over to see Peter
  standing at the door.
 "I'm hungry."

               115
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  On the way back to London in the car Elizabeth asked, "What do you think
  he'll offer you?"
  "Daren't anticipate anything," said Simon. "But I would hope-Under
  Secretary of State for the Environment."
 "But you're still not certain to be offered a post?"
  "Not at all. One can never know what permutations and pressures a new Prime
  Minister has to consider."
 "Like what?" asked Elizabeth.
  "Left and fight wings of the Party, north and south of the
  country--countless debts to be cleared with those people who can claim they
  played a role in getting him into Number Ten."
 "Are you saying he could leave you out?"
 "Oh, yes. But I'll be damn livid if he does."
 "And what could you do about it?"
  "Nothing. There is absolutely nothing one can do, and every backbencher
  knows it. The Prime Minister's power of patronage is absolute."
  "It won't matter that much, darling, if you continue driving in the wrong
  lane."

  Raymond was astonished. He couldn't believe that the opinion polls had been
  so wrong. He didn't confide in Joyce that he had hoped a Labour victory
  would bring him back onto the front bench, having languished on the back
  benches for what seemed an interminable time.
  "There's nothing to it," he told her, "but to rebuild a career at the bar.
  We may be out of office for a very long time."
  "But surely that won't be enough to keep you fully occupied?"
  "I have to be realistic about the future," he said slowly.
 "Perhaps they will ask you to shadow someone?"

               116
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "No, there are always far fewerjobs available in Opposition, and in any
  case they always give the orators like Jamie Sinclair the lead. All I can
  do is sit and wait for another election."
  Raymond wondered how he would broach what was really on his mind and
  tried to sound casual when he said, "Perhaps it's time we considered
  having our own home in the constituency."
  "Why?" said Joyce, surprised. "That seems an unnecessary expense, and
  there's nothing wrong with your parents' house. And, in any case,
  wouldn't they be offended?"
  "The first interest should be to my constituents and this would be a
  chance to prove a long-term commitment. Naturally, my parents would
  understand."
 "But the cost of two houses!"
  "It will be a lot easier to contemplate than when I was in Government,
  and it's you who have always wanted to live in Leeds. This will give you
  the chance to stop commuting from London every week. After I've done the
  rounds why don't you stay in Leeds, contact a few local real estate
  agents and see what's on the market?"
  "All right, if that's what you really want," said Joyce. "I'll start next
  week." Raymond was pleased to see Joyce was beginning to warm to the
  idea.

  Charles and Fiona spent a quiet weekend at their cottage in Sussex.
  Charles tried to do some gardening while he kept one ear open for the
  telephone. Fiona began to realize how anxious he was when she looked
  through the French window and saw her finest delphinium being taken for
  a weed.
  Charles finally gave the weeds a reprieve and came in and turned on the
  television to catch Maudling, Macleod, Thatcher and Carrington entering
  Number 10 Downing Street, all looking pensive, only to leave all smiles.
  The senior appointments had been made. The

               117
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Cabinet was taking shape. The new Conservative Prime Minister came out and
 waved to the crowds before being whisked away in his official car.
  Would Heath remember who had organized the young vote for him before he
  was even the Party Leader?
  "When do you want to go back to Eaton Square?" Fiona inquired from the
  kitchen.
 "Depends," said Charles.
 "On what?"
 "On whether the phone rings."

  Simon replaced the phone and sat staring at the television. All those
  hours of work on Environment, and the PM had offered the portfolio to
  someone else. He had left the television set on all day but didn't learn
  who it was, only that the rest of the Environment team had remained
  intact.
  "Why do I bother?" he said out loud. "The whole thing's a farce."
  "What were you saying, darling?" asked Elizabeth as she came into the
  room.
  The phone rang again. It was the newly appointed Home Secretary, Reginald
  Maudling.
 "Simon?"
  "Reggie, many congratulations on your appointment-not that it came as a
  great surprise."
  "That's what I'm calling about, Simon. Would you like tojoin me at the
  Home Office as Under Secretary?"
  "Like to---I would be delighted to join you at the Home Office."
  "Thank heavens for that," said Maudling. "It took me a dickens of a time
  to convince Ted Heath that you should be released from the Environment
  team."
  Simon turned to his wife to let her know his news. "I don't think there
  is anything that could have pleased me more."

               118
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "Want to bet?"
  Simon looked toward Elizabeth, his face showing complete puzzlement.
  "Oh, poor thing, you're so slow," Elizabeth said. She patted her stomach.
  "We're going to have a second child."

  When Raymond arrived back at his London law chambers, he let his clerk know
  that he wanted to be flooded with work. Over lunch with the head of the
  partnership, Sir Nigel Hartwell, he explained that he thought it unlikely
  that the Labour Party would be in government again for some considerable
  time.
  "You've only had five years in the House, Raymond, and at thirty-six, you
  must stop looking upon yourself as a veteran."
  "I wonder," said Raymond, sounding uncharacteristically pessimistic.
  "Well, you needn't worry about briefs. Law firms have been calling
  constantly since it was known you were back on a more permanent basis."
 Raymond began to relax.
  Joyce phoned him after lunch with the news that she hadn't yet found
  anything suitable, but the real estate agent had assured her that things
  would open up in the fall.
 "Well, keep looking," said Raymond.
  "Don't worry, I will," said Joyce, sounding as if she were enjoying the
  whole exercise.
  "If we find something, perhaps we can think of starting a family," she
  added tentatively.
 "Perhaps," said Raymond brusquely-
  Charles eventually received a call on Monday night, not from Number 10
  Downing Street but from Number 12, the office of the Chief Whip.
 The Chief Whip was calling to say that he hoped that

               119
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Charles would he willing to soldier on as a junior whip. When he heard the
 disappointment in Charles's voice he added, "For the time being."
  "For the time being," repeated Charles and put the phone down.
  "At least you're a member of the Government. You haven't been left out in
  the cold. People will come and go during the next five years, and you
  certainly have time on your side," said Fiona gamely. Charles had to agree
  with his wife, but it didn't lessen his disappointment.
  However, returning to the Commons as a member of the Government turned out
  to be far more rewarding than he expected. 1'his time his party was making
  the decisions, and the priorities were laid out when the Queen delivered
  her speech from the throne in the House of Lords at the opening of the new
  Parhament.

  Queen Elizabeth traveled early that November morning to the House of Lords
  in the Irish state coach. An escort of the household cavalry accompanied
  her, preceded by a procession of lesser state carriages in which the King
  Edward crown and other royal trappings were transported. Charles could
  remember watching the ceremony from the streets when he was a boy. Now he
  was taking part in it. When she arrived at the House of Lords she was
  accompanied by the Lord Chancellor through the sovereign's entrance to the
  robing room, where her ladies-in-waiting began to prepare her for the
  ceremony.
  At the appointed hour, Mr. Speaker, in his full court dress, a
  gold-embroidered gown of black satin damask, stepped down from his chair.
  He led the traditional procession out of the Commons and into the House of
  Lords. Followed by the Clerk of the House and the sergeant-at-arms bearing
  the ceremonial mace, then the Prime Minister, accompanied by the Leader of
  the Op-
  
               120
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 position, next, both front benches with their opposite numbers, and
 finally, as many backbenchers as could squeeze into the rear of the Lords'
 Chamber.
  The Lords themselves waited in the Upper House, dressed in red capes with
  ermine collars, looking somewhat like benevolent Draculas, accompanied
  by peeresses glittering in diamond tiaras and wearing long formal
  dresses. The Queen was seated on the throne, in her full imperial robes,
  the King Edward III crown now on her head. She waited until the
  procession had filled the chamber and all was still.
  The Lord Chancellor shuffled for-ward and, bending down on one knee,
  presented to the Queen a printed document. It was the speech written by
  the Government of the day, and although Her Majesty had read over the
  script the previous evening, she had made no personal contribution to its
  contents, as her role was only ceremonial on this occasion. She looked
  up at her subjects and began to read.

  Charles Hampton stood at the back of the cramped gathering, but with his
  height he had no trouble in following the entire proceedings.
  He could spot his elderly father, the Earl of Bridgewater, nodding
  ofl'during the Queen's speech, which offered no more or less than had
  been promised by the Tories during the election campaign. Charles, along
  with everyone else from the Commons, was counting the likely number of
  bills that would be presented during the coming months and soon worked
  out that the Whip's office was going to be in for a busy session.
  As the Queen finished her speech, Charles took one more took at his
  father, now sound asleep. How Charles dreaded the moment when he would
  be standing there watching his brother Rupert in ermine. The only com-
  pensation would be if he could produce a son who would one day inherit
  the title, as it was now obvious 121
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Rupert would never marry. It was not as if he and Fiona had not tried. He
 was beginning to wonder if the time had come to suggest that she visit a
 specialist. He dreaded finding out that she was unable to bear a child.
  Even producing an heir would not be enough if all he had achieved was to
  be a junior whip. It made him more determined than ever to prove he was
  worthy of promotion.
  The speech delivered, the sovereign left the Upper House followed by
  Prince Philip, Prince Charles and a fanfare of trumpets.

  From the first day of his appointment in June, Simon enjoyed every aspect
  of his work at the Home Office. By the time the Queen's speech had been
  delivered in November, he was ready to represent his department in the
  Commons, although Jamie Sinclair's appointment to shadow him would insure
  that he could never relax completely.
  As the new Tory administration took shape, the two quickly locked horns
  over several issues and were soon known as "the mongoose and the
  rattlesnake." However, in informal conference behind the Speaker's chair,
  Simon and Jamie Sinclair would good-humoredly discuss the issues on which
  they were crossing swords. The opportunity to be out of sight of the
  press gallery above them was often taken by the opposing members, but
  once they had both returned to the dispatch box they would tear into each
  other, each looking for any weakness in the other's argument. When either
  of the names Kerslake or Sinclair was cranked up on the old-fashioned
  wall machines indicating that one of them had risen to start a speech,
  members came flooding back into the chamber.
  On one subject they found themselves in total accord. Ever since August
  1969, when troops had first been sent into Northern Ireland, Parliament
  had been having an-
  
               122
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 other of its periodic bouts of trouble with the Irish question. In
 February of '71 the House devoted a full day's business to listen to
 members' opinions in the neverending effort to find a solution to the
 growing clash between Protestant extremists and the IRA. The motion before
 the House was to allow emergency powers to be renewed in the province.
  Simon rose from his seat on the front bench to deliver the opening speech
  for the Government, and having completed his contribution, surprised
  members by leaving the chamber.
  It is considered tactful for front-bench spokesmen on both sides of the
  House to remain in their places when backbenchers make their contribution
  to a debate. Several members began to comment when Simon hadn't returned
  an hour later. When he eventually came back, he only remained in his
  place for twenty minutes before slipping out again. He even failed to be
  present for the beginning of Jamie Sinclair's windup speech, to which be
  was expected to make a rebuttal.
  When Simon eventually returned to the chamber and took his place on the
  front bench, an elderly Labourite rose from his seat.
 "On a point of order, Mr. Speaker."
  Jamie sat down immediately and turned his head to listen to the point his
  colleague wanted to make.
  "Is it not a tradition of this house, sir," began the elder statesman
  rather ponderously, "for a Minister of the Crown to have the courtesy to
  remain in his seat during the debate in order that he may ascertain views
  other than his own?"
  "That is not strictly a point of order," replied the Speaker above the
  cries of "Hear, hear" from the Labour benches. Simon scribbled a quick
  note and hurriedly passed it over the opposite bench to Jamie. On it was
  written a single sentence.
"I accept the point my Right Honorable friend 123
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

 makes," Sinclair began, "and would have complained myself had I not known
 that the Honorable Gentleman, the member for Coventry Central, has spent
 most of the afternoon in the hospital"-Sinclair paused to let the effect
 set in-"where his wife was in labor. I am rarely overwhelmed by the
 argument of someone who hasn't even heard my speech. But today may be the
 only time this child is in labor"-the House began to laugh-"as I suspect
 the Honorable Gentleman spent most of his afternoon converting his
 innocent infant to the Conservative cause." Sinclair waited for the
 laughter to subside. "For those members of the House who thrive on statis-
 tics and data, it's a girl, and she weighs seven pounds three ounces."

  Simon returned to press his nose against the glass and to stare at his
  daughter once again.
  He waved at her but she took no notice. On each side of her crib were
  howling boys. Simon smiled at the effect young Lucy was already having
  on the opposite sex.

 124
              11

 THE CHIEF WHIP LOOKED AROUND at his colleagues, wondering which of them
 would volunteer for such a thankless task,
 A hand went up, and he was pleasantly surprised.
 "Thank you, Charles."
  Charles had already warned Fiona that he was going to volunteer to be the
  whip responsible for the issue that had most dominated the last
  election-Britain's entry into the Common Market. Everyone in the Chief
  Whip's office real i7ed that it would be the most demanding marathon of
  the entire Parliament, and there was an audible sigh of relief when
  Charles volunteered.
  "Not a job for anyone with a rocky marriage," he heard one whip whisper.
  At least that's something I don't have to worry about, thought Charles,
  but he made a note to take home some flowers that night.
  "Why is it the bill everyone wanted to avoid?" asked Fiona as.ihe
  arranged the daffodils.
  "Because many of our side don't necessarily back Edward Heath in his
  lifelong ambition to take Britain into the Common Market," said Charles,
  accepting a large brandy.

               125
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Added to that we have the problem of presenting a bill to curb the trade
  unions at the same time, which may well prevent those in the Labour Party
  who support us from voting with us on Europe. Because of this, the Prime
  Minister requires a regular 'state of play' assessment on Europe even
  though legislation may not be presented on the floor of the Commons for
  at least another year. He'll want to know periodically how many of our
  side are still against entry, and how many from the Opposition we can
  rely on to break ranks when the crucial vote is taken."
  "Perhaps I should become a member of Parliament, and then at least I
  could spent a little more time with YOU."
  "Especially if on the Common Market issue you were a 'don't know."'
  Although the "Great Debate" was discussed by the media to the point of
  boredom, members were nevertheless conscious that they were playing a
  part in history. And, because of the unusual spectacle of the Whips' not
  being in absolute control of the voting procedure, the Commons sprang to
  life, an excitement building up over the weeks and months of debate.
  Charles retained his usual task of watching over fifty members on all
  normal Government bills, but because of the priority given to the issue
  of entry into Europe he had been released from all other duties. He knew
  that this was his chance to atone for his disastrous windingup speech on
  the economy, which he sensed his colleagues had still not completely
  forgotten.
  Not that it was without risk. "I'm gambling everything on this one," he
  told Fiona. "If we lose the final vote I will be sentenced to the back
  benches for life."
 "And if we win?"
  "It will be impossible to keep me off the front bench," replied Charles.

               126
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "At last-I think I've found it."
  After Raymond heard the news, he took the train up to Leeds the following
  Friday. Joyce had selected four houses for him to consider, but he had to
  agree with her that the one in the Chapel Allerton area was exactly what
  they were looking for. It was also by far the most expensive.
 "Can we afford it?" asked Joyce anxiously.
 "Probably not."
 "I could go on looking."
  "No, you've found the fight house; now I'll have to work out how we can pay
  for it, and I think I may have come up with an idea."
 Joyce said nothing, waiting for him to continue.
 "We could sell our place in Lansdowne Road."
 "But where would we live when you're in London?"
  "I could rent a small flat somewhere between the law courts and the Commons
  while you set up our real home in Leeds."
 "But won't you get lonely?"
  "Of course I will," said Raymond, trying to sound convincing. "But almost
  every member north of Birmingham is parted from his wife during the week.
  In any case, you've always wanted to settle in Yorkshire, and this might be
  our best chance. If my practice continues to grow, we can buy a second
  house in London at a later date."
 Joyce looked apprehensive.
  "One added bonus," said Raymond. "Your being here in Leeds will insure that
  I never lose the seat."
  Joyce smiled. She always felt reassured whenever Raymond showed the
  slightest need of her.
  On Monday morning Raymond put in a bid for the house in Chapel Aflerton
  before returning to London. After a little bargaining over the phone during
  the week, he and the owner settled on a price. By Thursday Raymond had put
  his Lansdowne Road house on the mar-
  
               127
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ket and was surprised by the amount the real estate agent thought it would
 fetch.
 All Raymond had to do now was find himself a flat.

  Simon sent a note to Ronnie expressing his thanks for keeping him so well
  informed about what was happening at Nethercote and Company. It had been
  eight months since he had resigned from the board because of his
  appointment as a Minister, but Ronnie still saw that the minutes of each
  meeting were mailed to him to study in his free time. "Free time." Simon
  had to laugh at the thought.
  His overdraft at the bank now stood at a little over seventy-two thousand
  pounds, but as Ronnie intended the shares should be offered at five pounds
  each when they went public, Simon felt there was still a fair leeway, as
  his personal holding should realize some three hundred thousand pounds.
  Elizabeth warned him not to spend a penny of the profits until the money
  was safely in the bank. He was thankful that she didn't know the full
  extent of his borrowing.
  Over one of their occasional lunches at the Ritz, Ronnie spelled out to
  Simon his plans for the future of the company.
  "Even though the Tories are in, I think I'll postpone going public for at
  least eighteen months. This year's profits are up again and next year's
  look even more promising. Nineteen seventy-three looks perfect."
  Simon looked apprehensive and Ronnie responded quickly.
  "If you have any problems, Simon, I'll be happy to take the shares off your
  hands at market value. At least that way you would show a small profit."
  "No, no," said Simon. "I'll hang in there now that I've waited this long."
  "Suit yourself," said Ronnie. "Now, tell me, how are you enjoying the Home
  Office?"

               128
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Simon put down his knife and fork. "It's the ministry most involved with
  people, so there's a new challenge at a personal level every day, although
  it can be depressing too. Locking people up in prisons, banning immigrants
  and deporting harmless aliens isn't my idea of fun. Still, it is a
  privilege to work in one of the three great offices of state."
  "I bet you do Foreign Affairs and Exchequer before you're through," said
  Ronnie. "And what about Ireland?"
  "What about Ireland?" said Simon, shrugging his shoulders.
  "I would give the North back to Eire," said Ronnie, "or let them go
  independent and give them a large cash incentive to do so. At the moment
  the whole exercise is money down the drain."
 "We're discussing people," said Simon, "not money.
  "Ninety percent of the voters would back me," said Ronnie, lighting a
  cigar.
  "Everyone imagines ninety percent of the people support their views, until
  they stand for election. The issue of Ireland is far too important to be
  glib about," said Simon. "As I said, we're discussing people, eight million
  people, all of whom have the same right to justice as you and 1. And as
  long as I work in the Home Office, I intend to see that they get it."
 Ronnie remained silent.
  "I'm sorry, Ronnie," continued Simon. "Too many people have an easy
  solution to Ireland. If there was an easy solution, the problem wouldn't
  have lasted two hundred years."
  "Don't be sorry," said Ronnie. "I'm so stupid, I've only just realized for
  the first time why you're in public office."
  "You're a typical self-made fascist," said Simon, teasing his companion
  once again.
 "Well, one thing's for sure. You won't change my

               129
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 views on hanging. Your lot should bring back the rope; the streets aren't
 safe any longer."
  "For property developers like you, hoping for a quick killing?"

 "How do you feel about rape?" asked Raymond.
  "I can't see that it's relevant," Stephanie Arnold replied.
 "I think they'll go for me on it," said Raymond.
 "But why9"
  "They'll be able to pin me in a corner, damage my character."
  "But where does it get them? They can't prove lack of consent."
  "Maybe, but they'll use it as background to prove the rest of the case."
  "Because a person raped someone doesn't prove he murdered her."
  Raymond and Stephanie Arnold, who was new to chambers, continued discussing
  their first case together on the way to the Old Bailey, and she left
  Raymond in no doubt that she was delighted to be led by him. They were to
  appear together to defend a laborer accused of the rape and murder of his
  stepdaughter.
  "Open-and-shut case, unfortunately," said Raymond, "but we're going to make
  the Crown prove their argument beyond anyone's doubt."
  When the case stretched into a second week Raymond began to believe that
  thejury was so gullible that he and Stephanie might even get their client
  off. Stephanie was sure they would.
  The day before the judge's instructions to the jury, Raymond invited
  Stephanie to dinner at the House of Commons. That will make them turn their
  heads, he thought to himself. They won't have seen anything in a white
  shirt and black stockings that looks like Stephanie for some time.

               130
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Stephanie seemed flattered by the invitation, and Raymond noted that she
  was obviously impressed when throughout the stodgy meal served in the
  strangers' dining room, former Cabinet Ministers came by to acknowledge
  him.
 "How's the new flat?" she asked.
  "Worked out well," replied Raymond. "I find the Barbican is convenient
  both for Parliament and the law courts."
  "Does your wife like it?" she asked, lighting a cigarette but not looking
  at him directly.
  "She's not in town that much nowadays. She spends most of her time in
  Leed"oesn't care much for London."
  The awkward pause that followed was interrupted by the sudden loud
  clanging of bells.
  "Are we on fire?" said Stephanie, quickly stubbing out her cigarette.
  "No," said Raymond laughing, "just the ten o'clock division. I have to
  leave you and vote. I'll be back in about fifteen minutes."
 "Shall I order coffee?"
  "No, don't bother," said Raymond. "Perhaps ... perhaps you'd like to come
  back to the Barbican? Then you can give me a verdict on my flat."
 "Maybe it's an open-and-shut case," she smiled.
  Raymond returned the smile before joining his colleagues as they flooded
  out of the dining room down the corridor toward the Commons chamber. He
  didn't have time to explain to Stephanie that he only had six minutes to
  get himself into either the "Ayes" or "Nos" division lobby.
  When he returned to the strangers' dining room after the vote he found
  Stephanie checking her face in a compact mirror-a small round face with
  green eyes, framed by dark hair. She was replacing the trace of lipstick.
  He suddenly felt conscious of being a little overweight for a
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 man not yet forty. He was totally oblivious to the fact that women were
 beginning to find him attractive. A little extra weight and a few gray hairs
 had given him an air of authority.
  Once they had reached the flat, Raymond put on an Ella Fitzgerald record
  and retired to the small kitchen to prepare coffee.
  "Well, it sure looks like a bachelor flat," Stephanie remarked as she took
  in the one comfortable leather chair, the pipe stand and the political
  cartoons that lined the dark walls.
  "I suppose that's because that's what it is," he mused, setting down a tray
  laden with a coffee urn, coffee cups and two brandy balloons generously
  filled with cognac.
 "Don't you get lonely9" she said.
 "From time to time," he said as he poured the coffee.
 "And between times?"
 "Black?" he asked, not looking at her.
 "Black," she said.
 "Sugar?"
  "For a man who has served as a Minister of the Crown and who, it's rumored,
  is about to become the youngest Queen's Counsel in the country, you're
  still very unsure of yourself with women."
  Raymond blushed, but raised his eyes and stared directly into hers.
  In the silence he caught the words "Your fabulous face. . , . "
  "Would my Honorable friend care for a dance?" she said quietly.
  Raymond could still remember the last time he had danced. This time he was
  determined it would be different. He held Stephanie so that their bodies
  touched, and they swayed rather than danced to the music of Cole Porter.
  She didn't notice Raymond taking off his glasses and slipping them into his
  jacket pocket. When he bent over and kissed her neck, she gave a long sigh.

               132
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Lucy sat on the floor and started to cry. She sat because she couldn't
  yet walk. Once again Peter dragged her to her feet and commanded her to
  walk, sounding convinced that his words alone would be enough to elicit
  a response. Once again Lucy collapsed in a heap. Simon put down his knife
  and fork as he realized the time had come to rescue his nine-month-old
  daughter.
 "Daddy, leave her alone," demanded Peter.
  "Why," asked Simon, "are you so keen that she should walk?"
  "Because I need someone to play football with when you're away at work."
 "What about Mum?"
 "She's feeble, she can't even tackle," said Peter.
  This time Simon did laugh as he picked Lucy up and put her in the high
  chair ready for breakfast. Elizabeth came into the room with a bowl of
  porridge just in time to see Peter burst into tears.
  "What's the problem?" she asked, staring at her distraught son.
  "Daddy won't let me teach Lucy how to walk," said Peter, as he ran out
  ofthe room.
  "He means kill Lucy," said Simon. "I think he has plans to use her as a
  soccer ball."

  Charles studied his chart of 330 Conservatives. He felt confident of 217,
  not sure about 54 and had almost given up on 59. On the Labour side, the
  best information he could glean was that 50 members were expected to defy
  the Whip and join the Government's ranks when the great vote took place.
  "The main fly in the ointment," Charles reported to the Chief Whip, "is
  still the bill curbing the power of trade unions. The left is trying to
  convince those Labourites who still support the Common Market that there
  is no cause so important that they should enter the

               133
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 same lobby as those 'Tory trade-union bashers."' He went on to explain his
 fear that unless the Government was willing to modify the Trade Union Bill,
 they might lose Eu rope on the back of it. "And Alec Pimkin doesn't help
 matters by trying to gather the waverers in our party around him."
  "There's no chance of the Prime Minister modifying one sentence of the
  Trade Union Bill," said the Chief Whip, draining his gin and tonic. "He
  promised it in his campaign speech, and he intends to deliver by the time
  he goes to Blackpool at the end of this year. I can also tell you he isn't
  going to like your conclusions on Pimkin, Charles." Charles was about to
  protest. "I'm not complaining, you've done damn well so far. Just keep
  working on the undecided fifty. Try anything-threaten, cajole, bully,
  bribe-but get them in the right lobby. Pimkin included."
 "How about sex?" asked Charles.
  "You've been seeing too many American films," said the Chief Whip,
  laughing. "In any case I don't think we've got anyone other than Miss Norse
  to offer them."
  Charles returned to his office and went over the list once again. His
  forefinger stopped at the letter P. Charles strolled out into the corridor,
  and looked around; his quarry wasn't there. He checked the chamber-no sign
  of him. He passed the library. "No need to look in there," he thought, and
  moved on to the smoking room where he found his man, about to order another
  gin.
 "Alec," said Charles expansively.
 The rotund figure of Pimkin turned around.
  May as well try bribery first, thought Charles. "Let me get you a drink."
  "That's good of you, old fellow," said Pimkin, nervously fingering his bow
  tie.
  "Now, Alec, what's this about your voting against the European bill?"

               134
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Simon was horrified when he read the initial document. Its implications
  were all too evident.
  The report of the new Boundary Commission had been left in the red box
  for him to study over the weekend. He had agreed at a meeting of Home
  Office officials that he would steer it through the House expeditiously
  so that it would make the basis for the seats to be contested at the next
  election. As the Secretary of State reminded him, there must he no
  holdups.
  Simon had read the document twice. In essence the changes made sense,
  and, because of the movement of families from urban to rural areas, it
  would undoubtedly create more winnable seats for the Conservatives over-
  all. No wonder the Party wanted no holdups. But what could he do about
  the decision the commission had come to on his own constituency, Coventry
  Central? His hands were tied. If he suggested any change from the
  Boundary Commission's recommendations, he would rightly be accused of
  rigging matters in his own favor.
  Because of the city's dwindling population, the Commission had
  recommended that the four constituencies of Coventry become three.
  Coventry Central was to be the one to disappear, its voters distributed
  among Coventry West, Coventry East and Coventry North. Simon realized
  this would leave one safe seat for his sitting colleague and two safe
  Labour seats. It had never been far from his mind how marginal a seat he
  held. Now he was on the verge of being without one at all. He would have
  to traipse around the country all over again looking for a new seat to
  fight for at the next election, while at the same time taking care of his
  constituency in the moribund one; and at the stroke of a pen-his pen-they
  would pass on their loyalties to someone else. If only he had remained
  in Environment he could have put up a case for keeping all four seats.
 Elizabeth was sympathetic when he explained the

               135
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 problem but told him not to concern himself too much until he'd spoken to
 the vice-chairman of the Party.
  "It may even work out to your advantage," she comforted. "You might find
  something even better."
 "What do you mean?" said Simon.
 "You may end up with a safer seat nearer London."
  "I don't mind where I go as long as I don't have to spend the rest of my
  life tossing coins."
  Elizabeth prepared his favorite meal and spent the evening trying to keep
  up his spirits. After three portions of shepherd's pie, Simon fell asleep
  almost as soon as he put his head on the pillow. But she stayed awake long
  into the night.
  The casual conversation with the head of gynecology at St. Mary's kept
  running through her mind. Although she hadn't confided in Simon, she could
  recall the doctor's every word.
  I notice from the roster that you've had far more days off than you are
  entitled to, Dr. Kerslake. You must make up your mind if you want to be a
  doctor or the wife of an MP.
  Elizabeth stirred restlessly as she considered the problem, but came to no
  conclusion except not to bother Simon while he had so much on his mind.

  At exactly the time Raymond was ready to stop the affair Stephanie began
  leaving a set of court clothes in the flat.
  Although the two of them had gone their separate ways at the conclusion of
  the case, they continued to see one another a couple of evenings a week.
  Raymond had had a spare key made so that Stephanie didn't have to spend her
  life checking when he had a three-line whip.
  At first he began simply to avoid her, but she would then seek him out.
  When he did manage to give her the slip he would often find her back in his
  flat when he returned from the Commons. When fie suggested they 136
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 should be a little more discreet, she began to make threats, subtle to
 begin with, but after a time more direct.
  During the period of his affair with Stephanie, Raymond conducted three
  major cases for the Crown, all of which had successful conclusions and
  which added to his reputation. On each occasion his clerk made certain
  Stephanie Arnold was not assigned to be with him. Now that his residence
  problem was solved, Raymond's only won-y was how to end the affair.
  He was discovering that getting rid of her would prove more difficult
  than picking her up had been.

  Simon was on time for his appointment at Central Office. He explained his
  dilemma in detail to Sir Edward Mounijoy, vice-chairman of the Party, who
  was responsible for candidates.
  "What bloody bad luck," said Sir Edward. "But perhaps I may be able to
  help," he added, opening the green folder on the desk in front of him.
  Simon could see that he was studying a list of names. It made him feel
  once again like the ambitious Oxford applicant who needed someone to die.
  "There seem to be about a dozen safe seats that will fall vacant at the
  next election, caused either by retirement or redistribution."
 "Anywhere in particular you could recommend?"
 "I fancy Littlehampton."
 "Where's that?" said Simon.
  "It will be a new seat, safe as houses. It's in Hampshire on the borders
  of Sussex." He studied an attached map. "Runs proud to Charles Hampton's
  constituency, which remains unchanged. Can't think you would have many
  rivals there," said Sir Edward. "But why don't you have a word with
  Charles? He's bound to know everyone involved in making the decision."
"Anything else that looks promising9" asked Simon, 137
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 only too aware that Hampton might not be so willing to help his cause.
  "Let me see. Can't afford to put all your eggs in one basket, can we? Ali,
  yes--Redcom, in Northumberland." Again the vice-chairman studied the map.
  "Three hundred and twenty miles from London and no airport within eighty
  miles, and their nearest main line station is forty miles. I think that
  one's worth trying for only if you get desperate. My advice would still be
  to speak to Charles Hampton about Littlehampton. He always puts the Party
  ahead of personal feelings when it comes to these matters."
 "I'm sure you're right, Sir Edward," he said.
  "Selection committees are being formed already,' said Sir Edward, "so you
  shouldn't have long to wait.'
  "I appreciate your help," said Simon. "Perhaps you could let me know if
  anything else comes up in the meantime."
  "Of course, delighted. The problem is that if one of our side were to die
  during the session, you couldn't desert your present seat because that
  would cause two byelections. We don't want a by-election in Coventry Cen-
  tral with you being accused of being a carpetbagger somewhere else."
 "Don't remind me," said Simon.
  "I still think your best bet is to have a word with Charles Hampton. He
  must know the lay of the land in that neck of the woods."
  Two clich6s in one sentence, thought Simon. Thank heavens Mounfloy would
  never have to make a speech from the dispatch box. He thanked Sir Edward
  again and left Conservative Party headquarters.

  Charles had whittled down the fifty-nine anti-Common Market members to
  fifty-one, but he was now dealing with the hard kernel who seemed quite
  immune to cajolery or bullying. When he made his next report to 138
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the Chief Whip, Charles assured him that the number of Conservatives who
 would vote against entry into Europe was outnumbered by the Labourites who
 had declared they would support the Government. The Chief seemed pleased,
 but asked if Charles had made any progress with Pimkin's disciples.
  "Those twelve mad right-wingers," said Charles sharply. "They seeni to
  be willing to follow Pimkin even into the valley of death. I've tried
  everything, but they're still determined to vote against Europe whatever
  the cost."
  "The maddening thing is that that bloody nuisance Pimkin has nothing to
  lose," said the Chief Whip. "His seat disappears at the end of this
  Parliament in the redistribution. I can't imagine anyone with his extreme
  views would find a constituency to select him, but by then he'll have
  done the damage." The Chief Whip .paused. "If his twelve would even
  abstain, I would feel confident of advising the PM of victory."
  "The problem is to find a way of turning Pimkin into Judas and then urge
  him to lead the chosen twelve into our camp," said Charles.
 "You achieve that, Charles, and we'd certainly win."
  Charles returned to the Whip's office to find Simon Kerslake waiting by
  his desk.
  "I dropped by on the off chance, hoping you might be able to spare me a
  few moments," said Simon.
  "Of course," said Charles, trying to sound welcoming. "Take a seat."
  Simon sat down opposite him. "You may have heard that I lose my
  constituency as a result of the Boundary Commission report, and Edward
  Mountjoy suggested I have a word with you about Littlehampton, the new
  seat that borders your constituency."
  "It does indeed," said Charles masking his surprise. fie had not
  considered the problem, as his own constituency was not affected by the
  Boundary Commission's 139
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 report. He recovered quickly. "I'll do everything I can to help. And how
 wise of Edward to send you to me."
  "Littlehampton would be ideal," said Simon. "Especially while my wife is
  still working here in London."
 Charles raised his eyebrows.
  "I don't think you've met Elizabeth. She's a doctor at St. Mary's," Simon
  explained.
  "Yes, I see your problem. Why don't I start by having a word with Alexander
  Dalglish, the constituency chairman, and see what I can come up with?"
 "That would be extremely helpful."
  "Not at all. I'll call him at home this evening and find out what stage
  they've reached over selection, and then I'll put you in the picture."
 "I'd appreciate that."
  "While I've got you, let me give you 'The Whip' for next week," said
  Charles, passing over a sheet of paper, Simon folded it up and put it in
  his pocket. "I'll call you the moment I have some news."
  Simon left feeling happier and a little guilty about his past prejudice
  concerning Charles, whom he watched disappear into the chamber to carry out
  his bench duty.
  In the chamber, the European issue had been given six days for debate by
  backbenchers, the longest period of time allocated to one motion in living
  memory.
  Charles strolled down the aisle leading to the front bench and took a seat
  on the end to check on another set of speeches. Tom Carson, the Labour
  member from Liverpool Dockside, was launching into a tirade of abuse
  against the Government. Charles rarely listened to Carson's left-wing
  rantings--and the under-the-breath remarks and coughing that continued
  during his speech proved Charles was not alone in his opinion. By the time
  Carson concluded, Charles had worked out a plan.
  He left the chamber, but instead of returning to the Whip's office, which
  afforded no privacy, he disappeared into one of the telephone booths near
  the clois140
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ters above the members' cloakroom. He checked the number in his book and
 dialed.
 "Alexander, it's Charles. Charles Hampton."
  "Good to hear from you, Charles, it's been a long time. How are you?"
 "Well. And you?"
  "Can't complain. What can I do for a busy man like you?"
  "Wanted to chew over the new Sussex constituency with yoti--Littlehampton.
  How's your selection of a candidate going?"
  "They've left me to draw up a short list of six for final selection by the
  full committee in about ten days' time."
 "Have you thought of running yourself, Alexander?"
  "Manv times," was the reply that came back. "But the missus ~ouldn't allow
  it; neither would the bank balance. Do you have any idcas?"
  "Might be able to help. Why don't you come and have a quiet dinner at my
  place early next week?"
 "That's kind of you, Charles."
  "Not at all, it will be good to see you again. It's been far too long. Next
  Monday suit you?"
 "Absolutely."
  "Good, let's say eight o'clock, Twenty-seven Eaton Square."
  Charles put the phone down and returned to the Whip's office to make a note
  in his diary.

  Raymond hadjust finished making his contribution to the European debate
  when Charles returned to the House. Raymond had made a coherent economic
  case for remaining free of the other six European countries and for
  building stronger links with the Commonwealth and America. He had doubted
  that Britain could take the financial burden of entering a club that had
  been in existence for so long. If the country had joined at its inception,
  it might have been different, he argued, but he

               141
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 would have to vote against this risky unproven venture that he suspected
 could only lead to higher unemployment. Before he finished his speech,
 Charles put a cross by the name Gould.
  A note was being passed along the row to Raymond from one of the House
  messengers dressed in white tie and black tails. It read "Please ring Sir
  Nigel Hartwell as soon as convenient."
  Raymond left the floor of the House and went to the nearest telephone in
  the corner of the members' lobby. He called his law offices and was
  immediately put through to Sir Nigel.
 "You wanted me to phone?"
 "Yes," said Sir Nigel. "Are you free at the moment?"
 "I am," said Raymond. "Why? Is it anything urgent?"
  "I'd rather not talk about it over the phone," said Sir Nigel ominously.
  Raymond took a subway from Westminster to Temple and was in the law
  chambers fifteen minutes later. He went straight to Sir Nigel's office, sat
  down in a comfortable chair in the spacious clublike room, crossed his legs
  and watched Sir Nigel pace about in front of him. He was clearly determined
  to get something off his chest.
  "Raymond, I have been asked by those in authority about you becoming a
  Queen's Counsel. I've said I think you'd make a damn good QC." A smile came
  over Raymond's face, but it was soon wiped off. "But if you're going to
  take silk I need an undertaking from you."
 "An undertaking?"
  "Yes," said Sir Nigel. "You must stop having this damn silly, er ...
  relationship with another member of our chambers." He rounded on Raymond
  and faced him.
  Raymond turned scarlet, but before he could speak, the head of chambers
  continued.
  "Now I want your word on it," said Sir Nigel, "that it will end, and end
  imniediately."

                142
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "You have my word," said Raymond quietly.
  "I'm not a prig," said Sir Nigel, pulling down on his waistcoat, "but if
  you are going to have an affair, for God's sake make it as far away from
  the office as possible, and, if I may advise you, that should include the
  House of Commons and Leeds. There's still a lot of the world left over,
  and it's full of women."
  Raymond nodded his agreement; he could not fault the head of chambers's
  logic.
  Sir Nigel continued, obviously embarrassed. "There's a nasty fraud case
  starting in Manchester next Monday. Our client has been accused of
  setting up a senes of companies that specialize in life insurance but
  avoid paying out on the claims. I expect you remember all the publicity.
  Miss Arnold has been put on the case as a reserve junior. They tell me
  it could last several weeks."
 "She'll try and get out of it," said Raymond glumly.
  "She has already, but I made it quite clear that if she felt unable to
  take the case on, she would have to find other chambers."
  Raymond breathed a sigh of relief. "Thank you," he said.
  "Sorry about this. I know you've earned your silk, old boy, but I can't
  have members of our chambers going around with egg on their faces. Thank
  you for your cooperation. I can't pretend I enjoyed that."

 "Got time for a quiet word?" asked Charles.
  "You're wasting your time, dear thing, if you imagine the disciples will
  change their minds at this late stage," said Alec Pimkin. "AA twelve of
  them will vote against the Government on Europe. That's final."
  "I don't want to discuss Europe this time, Alec; it's far more serious,
  and on a personal level. Let's go and have a drink on the terrace."
 Charles ordered the drinks, and the two men strolled

               143
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 out onto the quiet end of the terrace toward the Speaker's house. Charles
 stopped when he was certain there was no longer anyone within earshot.
  "If it's not Europe, what is it?" said Pinikin, staring out at the Thames
  as he nervously fingered the rose in his lapel.
 "What's this I hear about you losing your seat?"
  Pimkin turned pale and touched his spotted bow tie nervously. "It's this
  bloody boundary business. My constituency is swallowed up, and no one seems
  willing to interview me for a new one."
  "What's it worth it'l secure you a safe seat for the rest of your life?"
  Pimkin looked suspiciously up at Charles. "Anything up to a pound of flesh,
  dear boy." He added a false laugh.
 "No, I won't need to cut that deep."
  The color returned to Pimkin's fleshy cheeks. "Whatever it is, you can rely
  on me, old fellow."
 "Can you deliver the disciples?" said Charles.
 Pimkin turned pale again.
  "Not on the small votes in committee," said Charles, before Pimkin could
  reply. "Not on the clauses evenjust on the second reading, the principle
  itself. Standing by the Party in their hour of need, no desire to cause an
  unnecessary general election, all that stuff-you fill in the details for
  the disciples. I know you can convince them, Alec."
 Pimkin still didn't speak.
  "I delivei a copper-bottomed seat, you deliver twelve votes. I think we can
  call that a fair exchange."
 "What if I get them to abstain?" said Pimkin.
  Charles waited, as if giving the idea considerable thought. "It's a deal,"
  he said, never having hoped for anything more.

               144
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Alexander Dalglisb arrived at Eaton Square a little after eight. Fiona
  met the tall, elegant man at the door and explained that Charles had not
  yet returned from the Commons.
  "But I expect him any moment," she added. "May I offer you a sherry?" she
  asked. Another thirty minutes had passed before Charles hurried in.
  "Sorry I'm late, Alexander," he said, shaking hands with his guest.
  "Hoped I might make it just before you." He kissed his wife on the
  forehead.
  "Not at all, dear boy," said Alexander, raising his sherry. "I couldn't
  have asked for more pleasant company.
 "What will you have, darling?" asked Fiona.
  "A strong whiskey, please. Now, let's go straight into dinner. I've got
  to be back at the talkshop by ten."
  Charles guided his guest toward the dining room and seated him at the end
  of the table before taking his place below the Holbein portrait of the
  first Earl of Bridgewater, an heirloom his grandfather had left him.
  Fiona took a seat opposite her husband. During the meal of beef
  Wellington, Charles spent a great deal of time catching up on what
  Alexander had been doing since they had last met. He made no mention of
  the real purpose behind the meeting until Fiona provided the opportunity
  when she served coffee.
  "I know you two have a lot to talk about, so I'll leave you to get on
  with it."
  "Thank you," said Alexander. He looked up at Fiona and smiled "For a
  lovely dinner."
 She returned his smile and left them alone.
  "Now, Charles," said Alexander, picking up the file he had left on the
  floor by his side, "I need to pick your brains."
  "Go ahead, old fellow," said Charles. "Only too delighted to be of
  assistance."

               145
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Sir Edward MountJoy has sent me a pretty long list for us to consider,
  among them a Home Office Minister and one or two other members of
  Parliament who'll be losing their present seats. What do you think of ...
  T'
  Dalglish opened the file in front of him as Charles poured him a generous
  glass of port and offered him a cigar from a gold case that he picked up
  from the sideboard.
  "What a magnificent object," said Alexander, staring in awe at the crested
  box and the engraved C.G.H. along its top.
  "A family heirloom," said Charles. "Should have been left to my brother
  Rupert, but I was lucky enough to have the same initials as my
  grandfather."
  Alexander handed it back to his host before returning to his notes.
  "Here's the man who impresses me," he said at last. "Kerslake, Simon
  Kerslake."
 Charles remained silent.
 "You don't have an opinion, Charles?"
 "Yes.
 "So what do you think of Kerslake?"
 "Strictly off the record?"
 Dalglish nodded but said nothing.
 Charles sipped his port. "Very good," he said.
 "Kerslake?"
  "No, the port. Taylor's Thirty-five. I'm afraid Kerslake is not the same
  vintage. Need I say more?"
 "No. What a pity. He looks good on paper."
  "On paper is one thing," said Charles, "but having him as your member for
  twenty years is quite another. And his wife ... Never seen in the
  constituency, you know." He frowned. "I'm afraid I've gone too far."
  "No, no," said Alexander. "I've got the picture. Next one is Norman
  Lamont."
  "First-class, but he's already been selected for Kingston, I'm afraid,"
  said Charles.

               146
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Dalglish looked down at his file once again. "Well, what about Pimkin?"
  "We were at Eton together. His looks are against him, as my grandmother
  used to say, but he's a sound man, and very good in the constituency, so
  they tell me.,,
 "You would recommend him then?"
  "I should snap him up before one of the other safe seats gets him."
  "That popular, is he?" said Alexander. "Thanks for the tip. Pity about
  Kerslake."
 "That was strictly off the record," said Charles.
 "Of course. Not a word. You can rely on me."
 "Port to your liking?. "
  "Excellent," said Alexander. "But your judgment has always been so good.
  You only have to look at Fiona to realize that."
 Charles smiled.
  Most of the other names Dalglish produced were either unknown, unsuitable
  or easy to dismiss. As Alexander left shortly before ten, Fiona asked him
  if the chat had been worthwhile.
 "Yes, I think we've found the right man."

  Raymond had the locks on his flat changed that afternoon. It tumed out to
  be more expensive than he had bargained for, and the locksmith had insisted
  on cash in advance.
  The locksmith grinned as he pocketed the money. "I make a fortune doing
  thisjob, guv'nor, I can tell you. At least one gentleman a day, always
  cash, no receipt. Means the wife and I can spend a month in Ibiza every
  year, tax free."
  Raymond smiled at the thought. He checked his watch, he could just catch
  the Thursday 7:10 from King's Cross and be in Leeds by ten o'clock for a
  long weekend.

               147
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Alexander Dalglish phoned Charles a week later to tell him Pimkin had made
  the first cut, and that they hadn't considered Kerslake.
  "Pimkin didn't go over very well with the committee at the first
  interview."
  "No, he wouldn't," said Charles. "I warned you his looks were against him
  and he may come across a bit too right wing at times, but he's as sound as
  a bell and will never let you down, take my word."
  "I'll have to, Charles. Because by getting rid of Kerslake, we've removed
  Pimkin's only real challenger."
  Charles put the phone down and dialed the Home Office. "Simon Kerslake,
  please."
 "Who's calling?"
  "Hampton, Whip's office." He was put straight through.
  "Simon, it's Charles. I thought I ought to give you an update on
  Littlehampton."
 "That's thoughtful of you," said Simon.
  "Not good news, I'm afraid. It turns out the chairman wants the seat for
  himself. He's making sure the committee only interviews idiots."
 "How can you be so certain?"
  "I've seen the short list and Pimkin's the only sitting member they're
  considering."
 "I can't believe it."
  "No, I was pretty shocked myself. I pressed the case for you, but it fell
  on deaf ears. Didn't care for your views on hanging or some such words.
  Still, I can't believe you'll find it hard to pick up a seat."
  "I hope you're right, Charles, but in any case thanks for trying."
  "Any time. Let me know of any other seats you put your name in for. I have
  a lot of friends up and down the country."

               148
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Two days later, Alec Pimkin was invited by the Littlehampton
  Conservatives to attend a short-list interview for the selection of a
  Tory candidate for the new constituency.
  "How do I begin to thank you?" he asked Charles when they met up in the
  bar.
  "Keep your word-and I want it in writing," replied Charles.
 "What do you mean?"
  "A letter to the Chief Whip saying you've changed your mind on the main
  European vote, and you and the disciples wifl be abstaining on Thursday."
  Pimkin looked cocky. "And if I don't play balL dear thing9"
  "You haven't got the seat yet, Alec, and I might find it necessary to
  phone Alexander Dalglish and tell him about that awfully nice little boy
  you made such a fool of yourself over when you were up at Oxford."
  When the Chief Whip received the letter from Pimkin three days later, he
  immediately summoned Charles.
  "Well done, Charles. How did you manage to succeed where we've all
  failed-and the disciples as well?"
  "Matter ofloyalty," said Charles. "Pimkin saw that in the end."
  On the final day of the Great Debate on "the principle of entry" into
  Europe, Prime Minister Heath delivered the winding-up speech. He rose at
  nine-thirty to cheers from both sides. At ten o'clock the House divided
  and voted in favor of "the principle" by a majority of one hundred and
  twelve, far more than Charles could have ever hoped for. Sixty-nine
  Labour MPs had helped to swell the Government's majority.
  Raymond Gould voted against the motion in accordance with his long-held
  beliefs. Simon Kerslake and Charles Hampton stood in the "Ayes" lobby.
  Alec Pimkin and the twelve disciples remained in their places on the
  Commons benches while the vote took place.

               149
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  When Charles heard the Speaker read out the final result, he felt a moment
  of triumph. Although he realized that he still had the committee stage to
  go through -hundreds of clauses, any of which could go wrong-
  --nevertheless, the first round belonged to him.

  Ten days later, Alec Pimkin defeated a keen young Conservative just down
  from Cambridge and a local woman councillor to be selected as prospective
  candidate for Littlehampton.

 150
             12

 RAYMOND STUDIED THE CASE once again and decided to make his own inquiries.
 Too many constituents had in the past demonstrated that they were willing to
 lie to him in office hours as happily as they would in the witness box to a
 ny judge.
  He dialed the public prosecutor's office. Here was one man who could cut
  his work in half with a sentence.
 "Good morning, Mr. Gould. What can I do for you?"
  Raymond had to smile. Angus Fraser was a contemporary of his since Raymond
  had come to the bar, but once he was in his office he treated everyone as
  a stranger, making no discrimination.
  "He even calls his wife 'Mrs. Fraser' when she rings the office," Sir Nigel
  had once told him. Raymond was willing to join in the game.
  "Good morning, Mr. Fraser. I need your advice in your official capacity."
 "I am always happy to be of service, sir."
 This was carrying formality too far.
  "I want to talk to you off the record about the Paddy O'Halloran case. Do
  you remember it?"
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Of course, everyone in this office remembers that case."
  "Good," said Raymond. "Then you'll know what a help you can be to me in
  cutting through the thicket. A group of my constituents, whom I wouldn't
  trust further than I could throw a boulder, claim O'Halloran was framed for
  the Princes Street bank robbery last year. They don't deny he has criminal
  tendencies--" Raymond would have chuckled if he hadn't been speaking to
  Angus Fraser-- "but they say he never left a pub called the Sir Walter
  Scott the entire time the robbery was taking place. All you have to tell
  me, Mr. Fraser, is that you are sure O'Halloran is guilty, and I'll drop my
  inquiries. If you say nothing, I shall dig deeper."
 Rayriond waited, but he received no reply.
  "Thank you, Mr. Fraser. I'll see you at the soccer match on Saturday." The
  silence continued.
 "Goodbye, Mr. Fraser."
 "Good day, Mr. Gould."
  Raymond settled back. It was going to be a lengthy exercise, but at least
  this was an opportunity to use his legal skills on behalf of a constituent,
  and perhaps it would even add to his reputation in the House. He started by
  checking with all the people who had confirmed O'Halloran's alibi that
  night, but after interviewing the first eight he came to the reluctant
  conclusion that none of them could be trusted as a witness. Whenever he
  came across another of O'Halloran's friends, the expression "Do anything
  for a pint" kept crossing his mind. The time had come to talk with the
  proprietor.
  "I couldn't be sure, Mr. Gould, but I think he was here that evening.
  Trouble is, O'Halloran came almost every night. It's hard to recall."
  "Do you know anyone who might remember? Someone you could trust with your
  cash register?"
  "That'd be pushing your luck in this pub, Mr. Gould." The proprietor
  thought for a moment. "How-
  
               152
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ever, there's old Mrs. Bloxham," he said, slapping the dish towel over his
 shoulder. "She sits in that corner every night." He pointed to a small
 round table that would have been crowded had it seated more than two
 people. "Ifshe says he was here, he was."
  Raymond asked the proprietor where Mrs. Bloxharn lived and then walked
  around the corner to 43 Mafeking Road in the hope of finding her in. He
  made his way through a group of' young children playing football in the
  middle of the road.
  "Is it another General Election already, Mr. Gould?" asked a disbelieving
  old lady as she peered through the letter slot.
  "No, it's nothing to do with politics, Mrs. Bloxham," said Raymond,
  bending down. "I came around to seek your advice on a personal matter."
  "Come on in out of the cold then," she said, opening the door to him.
  "There's a terrible draft rushes through this corridor."
  Raymond followed the old lady as she shuffled down the dingy corridor in
  her carpet slippers to a room that he would have said was colder than it
  had been outside on the street. There were no ornaments in the room save
  a crucifix that stood on a narrow mantelpiece below a pastel print ofthe
  Virgin Mary. Mrs. Bloxham beckoned Raymond to a wooden seat by a table
  yet untaid. She eased her plump frame into a stuffed horsehair chair. It
  groaned under her weight and a strand of horsehair fell to the floor.
  Raymond averted his glance from the old woman once he had taken in the
  black shawl and the dress she inust have worn a thousand times.
  Once settled in her chair, she kicked off her slippers. "Feet still
  giving me trouble," she explained.
 Raymond tried not to show his distaste.
  "Doctor doesn't seem to be able to explain the swellings," she continued,
  without bitterness.
Raymond leaned on the table and noticed what a fine 153
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 piece of furniture it was and how incongruous it looked in those
 surroundings. He was struck by the craftsmanship of the carved Georgian
 legs. She noticed he was admiring it. "My great-grandfather gave that to
 my great-grandmother the day they got married, Mr. Gould."
 "It's magnificent," said Raymond.
  But she didn't seem to hear, because all she said was, "What can I do for
  you, sir?"
  Raymond went over the O'Halloran story again. Mrs. Bloxham listened
  intently, leaning forward slightly and cupping heir hand around her ear
  to be sure she could hear every word.
  "That O'Halloran's an evil one," she said. "Not to be trusted. Our
  Blessed Lady will have to be very forgiving to allow the likes of him to
  enter the kingdom of Heaven." Raymond had to smile. "Not that I'm expect-
  ing to meet all that many politicians when I get there either," she
  added, giving Raymond a toothless grin.
  "Could O'Halloran possibly have been there that Friday night as all his
  friends claim?" Raymond asked.
  "He was there all right," said Mrs. Bloxham. "No doubt about that--saw
  him with my own eyes."
 "How can you be so sure?"
  "Spilled his beer over my best dress, and I knew something would happen
  on the thirteenth, especially with it being a Friday. I won't forgive him
  for that. I still haven't been able to get the stain out despite what
  those washing-powder ads tell you on the telly."
 "Why didn't you tell the police immediately?"
  "Didn't ask," she said simply. "They've been after him for a long time
  for a lot of things they couldn't pin on him, but for once he was in the
  clear."
  Raymond finished writing his notes and then rose to leave. Mrs. Bloxham
  heaved herself out of the chair, dispensing yet more horsehair onto the
  floor. They walked to the door together. "I'm sorry I couldn't offer 154
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 you a cup of tea but I'm right out at the moment," she said. "If you had
 come tomorrow it would have been all right.
 Raymond paused on the doorstep.
  "I get the pension tomorrow, you see," she replied to his unasked
  question.

  Elizabeth took a day off to travel to Redcorn with Simon for the
  interview. Once again the children had to be left with the baby-sitter.
  The local and national press had made him the hot favorite for the new
  seat. Elizabeth put on what she called her best Conservative outfit, a
  pale-blue suit with a dark-blue collar that hid everything, Simon noted,
  and reached well below her knees.
  "Well, I wouldn't have recognized you, Doctor," said Simon grinning.
  "Understandably," she replied. "I've disguised myself as a politician's
  wife."
  The journey from King's Cross to Newcastle took three hours and twenty
  minutes, on what was described in the timetable as "the express." At
  least Simon was able to catch up with a great deal of the paperwork that
  had been stuffed into his red box. He reflected that the civil servants
  who worked full-time in the bureaucracy rarely allowed politicians time
  to involve themselves in politics. They wouldn't have been pleased to
  learn that he had spent an hour of thejourney reading the last four
  weekly copies of the Redcorn News.
  At Newcastle they were met by the wife of the Association treasurer, who
  had volunteered to escort the Minister and his wife to the constituency
  to be sure they were in time for the interview. "That's very thoughtful
  of you," said Elizabeth, as she stared at the mode of transport that had
  been chosen to take them the next forty miles.
  The ancient Austin Mini took a further hour and a half through the
  winding roads before they reached their 155
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 destination, and the treasurer's wife never drew breath once throughout
 the entire journey. When Simon and Elizabeth piled out of the car at the
 market town of Redcorn, they were physically and mentally exhausted.
  The treasurer's wife took them through to the constituency headquarters
  and introduced them both to the campaign manager.
  "Good of you to come," he said. "Hell of a journey, isn't it?"
  Elizabeth felt unable to disagree with his judgment. But on this occasion
  she made no comment, because if this was to be Simon's best chance of
  returning to Parliament, she had already decided to give him every sup-
  port possible. Nevertheless, she dreaded the thought of her husband's
  making the journey to Redcorn twice a month, as she feared they would see
  even less of each other than they did at present, let alone the children.
  "Now the form is," began the campaign manager, "that we are interviewing
  six potential candidates, and they'll be seeing you last." The campaign
  manager winked knowingly.
 Simon and Elizabeth smiled uncertainly.
  "I'm afraid they won't be ready for you for at least another hour, so you
  have time for a stroll around the town."
  Simon was glad ofthe chance to stretch his long legs and take a closer
  look at Redcorn. He and Elizabeth walked slowly around the pretty market
  town, admiring the Elizabethan architecture that had somehow survived
  irresponsible or greedy town planners. They even climbed the hill to take
  a look inside the magnificent perpendicular church that dominated the
  surrounding area.
  As he walked back past the shops in the High Street, Simon nodded to
  those locals who appeared to recognize him.

               156
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "A lot of people seem to know who you are," said Elizabeth, and then they
  saw the display outside the local newsstand. They sat on the bench in the
  market square and read the lead story under a large picture of Simon.
 "Redcorn's Next MPT' ran the headline.
  The story volunteered the fact that although Simon Kerslake had to be
  considered the favorite, Bill Travers, a local farmer who had been
  chairman of the county council the previous year, was still thought to
  have an outside chance.
  Simon began to feel a little sick in the stomach. It reminded him of the
  day he had been interviewed at Coventry Central nearly eight years
  before. Now that he was a Minister of the Crown, he wasn't any less
  nervous.
  When he and Elizabeth returned to constituency headquarters they were
  informed that only two more candidates had been seen and the third was
  still being interviewed. They walked around the town once again, even
  more slowly this time, watching shopkeepers put up their colored shutters
  and turn "Open" signs to "Closed."
 "What a pleasant market town," said Simon.
  "And the people seem so polite after London," she said.
  He smiled as they headed back to party headquarters. On their way, they
  passed townspeople who bid them "Good evening," courteous people whom
  Simon felt he would have been proud to represent. Although they walked
  slowly, Elizabeth and he could not make their journey last more than
  thirty minutes.
  When they returned a third time to constituency headquarters, the fourth
  candidate was leaving the interview room. She looked very despondent. "It
  shouldn't be long now," said the campaign manager, but it was another
  forty minutes before they heard a ripple of ap-
  
               157
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 plause, and a man in a Harr-is tweed jacket and brown trousers left the
 room. He didn't seem happy either.
  Simon and Elizabeth were ushered through, and as they entered everyone
  in the room stood. Ministers of the Crown did not visit Redcorn often.
  Simon waited for Elizabeth to be seated before he took the chair in the
  center of the room facing the committee. He estimated that there were
  about fifty people present, and they were all staring at him, showing no
  aggression, merely curiosity. He looked at the weatherbeaten faces. Most
  of the people, male and female, were dressed in tweeds. In b is dark
  striped London suit Simon felt out of place.
  "And now," said the chairman, "we welcome the Right Honorable Simon
  Kerslake, MP."
  Simon had to smile at the mistake so many people made in thinking that
  Ministers were automatically members of the Privy Council and therefore
  entitled to the prefix "Right Honorable," instead of the plain
  "Honorable" accorded all MPs.
  "Mr. Kerslake will address us for twenty minutes, and he has kindly
  agreed to answer questions after that," added the chairman.
  Simon felt sure he spoke well, but even his few carefully chosen quips
  received no more than a smile, and his more important comments elicited
  little response. This was not a group of people given to showing their
  emotions. When he had finished, he sat down to respectful clapping and
  murmurs.
  "Now the Minister will answer questions," said the chairman.
  "Where do you stand on hanging?" said a scowling middle-aged woman in a
  gray tweed suit seated in the front row.
  Simon explained his reasons for being a convinced abolitionist. The scowl
  did not move from the questioner's face and Simon thought to himself how
  much

               158
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 happier she would have been with Ronnie Nethercote as her member.
  A man in a brogue suit asked him how he felt about this year's farm
  subsidy.
  "Good on eggs, tough on beef, and disastrous for pig farmers. Or at least
  that's what I read on the front page of Farmer's Weekly yesterday." Some
  of them laughed for the first time. "It hasn't proved necessary for me
  to have a great knowledge of farming in Coventry Central, but if I am
  lucky enough to be selected for Redcorn I shall try to learn quickly, and
  with your help I shall hope to master the farmers' problems." Several
  heads nodded their approval.
  "May I be permitted to ask Mrs. Kerslake a question?" said a tall, thin
  spinsterish woman who had stood up to catch the chairman's eye. "Miss
  Tweedsmuir, chairman of the Ladies' Advisory," she announced in a shrill
  voice. "If your husband were offered this seat, would you be willing to
  come and live in Northumberland?"
  Elizabeth had dreaded the question because she knew that if Simon were
  offered the constituency she would be expected to give up herjob at the
  hospital. Simon turned and looked toward his wife.
  "No," she replied directly. "I am a doctor at St. Mary's Hospital, where
  I practice obstetrics and gynecology. I support my husband in his career,
  but, like Margaret Thatcher, I believe a woman has the right to a good
  education and then the chance to use her qualifications to the best
  advantage."
  A ripple of applause went around the room and Simon smiled at his wife.
  The next question was on the Common Market, and Simon gave an unequivocal
  statement as to his reasons for backing the Prime Minister in his desire
  to see Britain as part of the European community.
Simon continued to answer questions on subjects 159
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ranging from trade-union reform to violence on television before the
 chairman asked, "Are there any more questions?"
  There was a long silence and just as he was about to thank Simon, the
  scowling lady in the front row, without being recognized by the chair,
  asked what Mr. Kerslake's views were on abortion.
  "Morally, I'm against it," said Simon. "At the time of the Abortion Act
  many of us believed it would stem the tide of divorce. We have been
  proved wrong. The rate of divorce has quadrupled. Nevertheless, in the
  cases of rape or fear of physical or mental injury arising from birth,
  I would have to support the medical advice given at the time. Elizabeth
  and I have two children and my wife's job is to see that babies are
  safely delivered," he added.
 The lips moved from a scowl to a straight line.
  "Thank you," said the chairman. "it was good of you to give us so much
  of your time. Perhaps you and Mrs. Kerslake would be kind enough to wait
  outside."
  Simon and Elizabeth joined the other hopeful candidates, their wives and
  the campaign manager in a small dingy room at the back of the building.
  When they saw the half-empty trestle table in front of them they both
  remembered they hadn't had any lunch, and they devoured what was left of
  the curling cucumber sandwiches and the cold sausage rolls.
  "What happens next?" Simon asked the campaign manager between mouthfuls.
  "Nothing out of the ordinary. They'll have a discussion, allowing
  everyone to express their views, and then they'll vote. It should be all
  over in twenty minutes."
  Elizabeth checked her watch: it was seven o'clock and the last train was
  at nine-fifteen.
  An hour later, when no one had emerged from the room, the campaign
  manager suggested to all the candi-
  
               160
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dates who had a long journey ahead of them that they might like to check
 into the Bell Inn just over the road.
  When Simon looked around the room it was clear that everyone else had done
  so in advance.
  "You had better stay put in case you're called again," Elizabeth said.
  "I'll go off and book a room and at the same time call and see how the
  children are getting on. Probably eaten the poor baby-sitter by now."
  Simon opened his red box and tried to do some work while Elizabeth
  disappeared in the direction of the Bell Inn.
  The man who looked like a farmer came over and introduced himself.
  "I'm Bill Travers, the chairman of the new constituency," he began. "I only
  wanted to say that you'll have my full support as chairman if the committee
  selects
 YOU."
 "Thank you," said Simon.
  "I had hoped to represent this area, as my grandfather did. But I shall
  understand if Redcorn prefers to choose a man destined for the Cabinet
  rather than someone who would be happy to spend his life on the back
  benches."
  Simon was impressed with the directness and dignity of his opponent's
  statement and would have liked to respond in kind, but Travers quickly
  added, "Forgive me, I'll not waste any more of your time. I can see---2' he
  looked down at the red box-"that you have a lot of work to catch up on."
  Simon felt guilty as he watched the man walk away. A few minutes later
  Elizabeth returned and tried to smile. "The only room left is smaller than
  Peter's and it faces the main road, so it's just about as noisy."
  61 At least no children to say 'I'm hungry,"' he said, touching her hand.
 It was a little after nine when a weary chairman came

               161
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 out and asked all the candidates if he could have their attention. Husbands
 and wives all faced him. "My committee wants to thank you for going through
 this grim procedure. It has been hard for us to decide something that we
 hope not to have to discuss again for twenty years." He paused. "The
 committee is going to invite Mr. Bill Travers to fight the Redcorn seat at
 the next election."
 In a sentence it was all over. Simon's throat went dry.
  He and Elizabeth didn't get much sleep in their tiny room at the Bell Inn,
  and it hadn't helped that the agent told them the final vote had been
  25-23.
  "I don't think Miss Tweedsmuir liked me," said Elizabeth, feeling guilty.
  "If I had told her that I would have been willing to live in the
  constituency I think you'd have been offered the seat."
  "I doubt it," said Simon. "In any case it's no use agreeing to their terms
  at the interview and then imposing your own when you have been offered the
  constituency. My guess is you'll find Redcorn has chosen the right man."
  Elizabeth smiled at her husband, grateful for his support.
  "There will be other seats," said Simon, only too aware that time was now
  running out. "You'll see."
  Elizabeth prayed that he would prove fight, and that next time the choice
  of constituency would not make her have to face the dilemma she had so far
  managed to avoid.

  Joyce made one of her periodic trips to London when Raymond took silk and
  became a Queen's Counsel. The occasion, she decided, warranted another
  visit to Marks and Spencer. She recalled her first trip to the store so
  many years before when she had accompanied her husband to meet the Prime
  Minister. Raymond had come so far since then, although their relationship
  seemed to 162
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 have progressed so little. She couldn't help thinking how much
 better-looking Raymond had become in middle age, and feared the same could
 not be said of her.
  She enjoyed watching the legal ceremony as her husband was presented in
  court before the judges, Latin words spoken but not understood. Suddenly
  her husband was Raymond Gould, QC, MP.
  She and Raymond arrived late in chambers for the celebration party.
  Everyone seemed to have turned out in her husband's honor. Raymond felt
  full of bonhomie when Sir Nigel handed him a glass of champagne. Then he
  saw a familiar figure by the mantelpiece and remembered that the trial in
  Manchester was over. He managed to circle the room, speaking to everyone
  but Stephanie Arnold. To his horror, he turned to see her introducing
  herself to his wife. Every time he glanced toward them, they seemed deeper
  in conversation.
  "Ladies and gentlemen," said Sir Nigel, banging a table. He waited for
  silence. "We are always proud in chambers when one of our members takes
  silk. It is a comment not only on the man, but also on his chambers. And
  when it is the youngest silk--still under forty-it adds to that pride. All
  of you of course know that Raymond also serves in another place in which we
  expect him to rise to even greater glory. May I add, finally, how pleasant
  it is to have his wife, Joyce, among us tonight. Ladies and gentlemen," he
  continued. "The toast is: Raymond Gould, QC."
  The applause was sustained and genuine. As colleagues came up to
  congratulate him, he couldn't help noticing that Stephanie and Joyce had
  resupied their conversation.
  Raymond was handed another glass of champagne just as an earnest young
  pupil named Patrick Montague, who had recently joined them from chambers in
  Bristol, engaged him in conversation. Although Montague had been with them
  for some weeks, Raymond had never 163
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 spoken to him at length before. He seemed to have very clear views on
 criminal law and the changes that were necessary. For the first time in
 his life Raymond felt he was no longer a young man.
 Suddenly both women we're at his side.
 "Hello, Raymond."
  "Hello, Stephanie," he said awkwardly. He looked anxiously toward his
  wife. "Do you know Patrick Montague?" he asked absentmindedly.
 The three of them burst out laughing,
 "What's so funny?" asked Raymond.
  "You do embarrass me sometimes, Raymond," said Joyce. "Surely you realize
  Stephanie and Patrick are engaged?"

 164
              13

 "CAN YOU EXPLAIN why Simon Kerslake missed the vote yesterday?"
  Charles looked across the table at the Chief Whip. :'No, I can't," he said.
  "I've been distributing the weekly Whip' to him the same as every member of
  my group."
 "What's the meaning of it then?"
  "I think the poor man has been spending a lot of his time traipsing around
  the country looking for a seat to fight at the next election."
  "That's no excuse," said the Chief Whip. "Duties in the House must come
  first, every member knows that. The vote missed was on a vital clause, and
  everyone else in your group has proved reliable. Perhaps I should have a
  word with him?"
  "No, no, I'd rather you didn't," said Charles, fearing he sounded a little
  too insistent. "I consider it my responsibility. I'll speak to him and see
  that it doesn't happen again."
  "All right, Charles, if that's the way you want to play it. Thank God it
  can't last much longer and the damn thing will soon be law, but we must
  remain vigilant over

               165
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 every clause. The Labour Party knows only too well that if they defeat us on
 certain key clauses they can still sink the whole bill, and if I lost one of
 those by a single vote I would cut Kerslake's throat. Or anyone else who was
 responsible."
 "I'll make sure he gets the message," said Charles.
  "How's Fiona reacting to all these late nights?" the Chief Whip asked,
  finally relaxing.
  "Very well, considering. In fact, now that you mention it, I have never
  seen her looking better."
  "Can't say my wife is enjoying the 'prep school antics,' as she describes
  our continual late-night sessions. I've had to promise to take her to the
  West Indies this winter to make up for it. Well, I'll leave you to deal
  with Kerslake. Be firm, Charles."

  "Norman Edwards?" repeated Raymond in disbelief "The general secretary of
  the Lorry Union?"
  "Yes," said Fred Padgett, getting up from behind his desk.
  "But he burned Full Employment at Any Cost? on a public bonfire with every
  journalist he could lay his hands on to witness the conflagration."
  "I know," said Fred, returning a letter to the filing cabinet. "I'm only
  your campaign manager. I'm not here to explain the mysteries of the
  universe."
 "When does he want to see me?" asked Raymond.
 "As soon as possible."
  "Better ask him if he can come for a drink at the house at six o'clock-"
  Raymond had had heavy Saturday morning office hours and had only found time
  to grab a sandwich at the pub before going off to watch Leeds play
  Liverpool. Although he had never cared for soccer, now he regularly sat in
  the directors' box every other week in full view of his constituents while
  he supported his local soccer team, killing thirty thousand birds with one
  stone. He 166
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 was careful to adopt his old Yorkshire accent when talking to the lads in
 the dressing room after the match, not the one he used to address a high
 court judge during the week.
  Leeds won 3-2, and after the match Raymond joined the directors for a drink
  in the boardroom and nearly forgot about his meeting with Norman Edwards.
  Joyce was in the garden showing the union leader her early snowdrops when
  Raymond returned.
  "Sorry I'm late," he shouted, as he hung up his yetlow-and-black scarf.
  "I've been to the local match."
 "Who won?" asked Edwards.
  "Leeds, of course, three to two. Come on in and have a beer," said Raymond.
 "I'd prefer a vodka."
  The two men went into the house while Joyce continued with her gardening.
  "Well," said Raymond, pouring his guest a Smirnoff. "What brings you all
  the way from Liver-pool if it wasn't to watch soccer? Perhaps you want a
  signed copy of my book for your next union bonfire?"
  "Don't give me any trouble, Ray. I came all this way because I need your
  help, simple as that."
  "I'm all ears," said Raymond, not commenting on the shortening of his name.
  "We had a full meeting of the General Purposes Committee yesterday, and one
  of the brothers had spotted a clause in the Common Market Bill that could
  put us all out of work. The clause concerning shipment to the Channel
  coast."
  Norman passed a copy of the bill to Raymond with the relevant clause marked
  in red. "If that gets through the House my boys are in deep trouble."
  "Yes," said Raymond. "I can see that. Actually, I'm surprised it's been
  allowed to get this far."
  Raymond studied the wording in detail while Edwards poured himself another
  vodka.

               167
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "And how much do you think this will add to the costs?" asked Raymond.
  "I'll tell you, enough to make us uncompetitive, that's how much,"
  replied the union leader.
  "Point taken," said Raymond. "So what's wrong with enlisting your own
  member? Why come to me?"
 "I don't trust him. He's pro-European at any cost."
  "Then what about your sponsored trade-union representative in the House?"
  "Tom Carson? You must be joking. He's so far to the left that even his
  own side is suspicious when he supports a cause." Raymond laughed.
  Edwards continued, "Now, what my committee wants to know is whether you
  would be willing to fight this clause in the House for us? Especially as
  we have little to offer you in return."
  "I'm sure you will be able to repay me in kind sometime in the future,"
  said Raymond.
  ,,Got the picture," said Edwards, touching the side of his nose with a
  forefinger. "What do I do next?"
  "You go back to 1,iverpool and hope that I'm as good as you think I am."
  Norman Edwards put on an old raincoat and started to button it up. He
  smiled at Raymond- "I may have been appalled by your book, Ray. But it
  doesn't mean I didn't admire it."

  "The damn man missed another three-line whip, Charles. It must be the
  last time you protect him."
  "It won't happen again," promised Charles convincingly. "I would like to
  give him one more chance. Allow him that."
  "You're very loyal to him," said the Chief Whip. "But next time I'm going
  to see Kerslake myself and get to the bottom of it."
 "It won't happen again," repeated Charles.
 "Hmm," said the Chief Whip. "Next problem is, are

               168
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 there any clauses on the Common Market Bill that we should be worried about
 next week?"
  "Yes," replied Charles. "This lorry clause that Raymond Gould is fighting.
  He made a brilliant case on the floor of the House, and got all his own
  side and half of ours backing him."
  "He's not the sponsored MP for the Lorry Union," said the Chief Whip,
  surprised.
  "No, the unions obviously felt Tom Carson wouldn't help the cause, and he's
  hopping mad at the slight."
  "Clever of them to pick Gould. Improves as a speaker every time I hear him.
  And no one can fault him on points of law."
  "So we had better face the fact that we are going to lose the clause?" said
  Charles despondently.
  "Never. We'll redraft the damn thing so that it's acceptable and seen to be
  compassionate. It's not a bad time to be the defender of the union
  interests. That way we'll keep Gould from getting all the credit. I'll
  speak to the PM tonight-and don't forget what I said about Kerslake."
  Charles returned to his office reflecting that in the future he would have
  to be more careful to tell Simon Kerslake when clauses on the Common Market
  Bill would be voted upon. He suspected he had carried this ploy as far as
  he could for the time being.

  "With or without civil servants?" asked Simon as Raymond entered his
  office.
 "Without, please."
  "Fine," said Simon and pressed a switch on the intercom by his desk, "I
  don't want to be disturbed while I'm with Mr. Gould," he said and then
  ushered his colleague toward a comfortable seat. Ever since Gould had re-
  quested a meeting, Simon had been more than curious to discover what he
  wanted. In the years since they had

               169
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 locked homs over devaluation, they had had little direct contact.
  "My wife was asking this morning how your search for a seat is going," said
  Raymond.
  "Your wife is better informed than most of my colleagues. But I'm afraid
  the truth is, not too well. The last three constituencies to come up
  haven't even asked to see me. I can't put a finger on why, except that they
  all seem to have selected local men."
  "It's still a long time to the next election," said Raymond. "You're sure
  to find a seat before then."
  "It might not be so long if the Prime Minister decides to call a General
  Election and test his strength against the unions."
  "That would be foolish. He might defeat us but he won't defeat the unions,"
  said Raymond, as a young secretary came into the office with two cups of
  coffee and put them on the low table.
  Only when she had left the office did Raymond reveal his purpose. "Have you
  had time to look at the file?" he asked, sounding rather formal.
  "Yes, I went over it last night between checking over my son's homework and
  helping my daughter to build a model boat."
 "And how do you feel?" Raymond asked.
  "Not very good. I can't get to grips with this new math they're now
  teaching, and my mast was the only one that fell off when Lucy launched the
  boat in the bath."
 Raymond laughed.
  "I think you've got a case," said Simon, sounding serious again. "Now what
  are you hoping to get out of me?"
  "Justice," said Raymond. "That's the reason I wanted to see you privately.
  I feel there are no party political points to be made out of this case for
  either of us. I have no plans to try to embarrass the Home Office, and I
  con-
               170
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 sider it in the best interest of my constituent to cooperate as closely as
 I can with you."
  "Thank you," said Simon. "So where do you want to go from here?"
  "I'd like to table a planted question for your department in the hope that
  you would consider opening an inquiry. If the inquiry comes to the same
  conclusion as I have, I would expect you to order a retrial."
  Simon hesitated. "And if the inquiry goes against you would you agree to no
  reprisals for the Home Office?"
 "You have my word."
  "And ifthere is one thing I have learned, to my cost, about you," said
  Simon, "it's that you never break your word."
 Raymond smiled. "I consider that long forgotten."

  The following Tuesday, the Speaker looked up toward the Labour back benches
  and called on "Mr. Raymond Gould."
  "Number Seventeen, sir," said Raymond. The Speaker looked down to check
  over the question, which asked the Home Office to consider an inquiry into
  the case of Mr. O'Halloran.
  Simon rose to the dispatch box, opened his file and said, "Yes, sir."
 "Mr. Raymond Gould," called the Speaker again.
  Raymond rose from his place on the Opposition back benches to ask his
  supplementary question.
  "May I thank the Minister for agreeing to an inquiry so quickly, and ask
  him, if he discovers an injustice has been done to my constituent Mr. Paddy
  O'Halloran, that the Home Secretary order a retrial immediately?"
 Simon rose again.
 "Yes, sir,"
  "I am grateful to the Honorable Gentleman," said Raymond, half-rising.
 All over in less than a minute-but older members

               171
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 who listened to the brief exchange between Gould and Kerslake understood
 that considerable preparation had gone into that minute from both sides.

  Simon had read his department's final report on the O'Halloran case while
  Elizabeth was trying to get to sleep. He had to go over the details only
  once to realize that he would have to order a retrial and institute a full
  investigation into the past record of the police officers who had been
  involved in the case.
  The trial was in its third day when Mr. Justice Comyns, after listening to
  Mrs. Bloxham's evidence, stopped proceedings and instructed the jury to
  return a verdict of not guilty.
  Raymond received praise from all quarters of the House, but he was quick to
  acknowledge the support given him by Simon Kerslake and the Home Office.
  The London Times even wrote an editorial the next day on the proper use of
  influence by a constituency MP.

  The only drawback to Raymond's success was that every convict's mother was
  lined up to see him at his twice-monthly office hours. But during the year
  he took only one case seriously and once again began to check into the
  details.
  This time, when Raymond rang Angus Fraser at the prosecutor's office, he
  found nothing was known of Ricky Hodge beyond the fact that Fraser was able
  to confirm that he had no known criminal record. Raymond felt he had
  stumbled on a case with international implications.
  As Ricky Hodge was in a Turkish jail, any inquiries had to be made through
  the Foreign Office. Raymond did not have the same relationship with the
  Foreign Secretary as he did with Simon Kerslake, so he felt the direct
  approach would be best, and submitted a question to be answered in the
  House. He worded it carefully.

                172
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "What action does the Foreign Secretary intend to take over the
  confiscation of a British passport from a constituent of the Honorable
  Member for Leeds North, details of which have been supplied to him?"
  When the question was asked in front of the House on the following
  Wednesday the Foreign Secretary rose to answer the question himself. He
  stood at the dispatch box and peered over his half-moon spectacles and
  said:
  "Her Majesty's Government is pursuing this matter through the usual
  diplomatic channels."
  Raymond was quickly on his feet. "Does the Right Honorable Gentleman
  realize that my constituent has been in a Turkish prison for six months
  and has still not been charged?"
  "Yes, sir," replied the Foreign Secretary. "I have asked the Turkish
  Embassy to supply the Foreign Office with x.ort details of the case."
  Raymond leaped up again. "How long will my constituent have to be
  forgotten in Ankara before the Foreign Secretary does more than ask for
  the details of his case?"
  The Foreign Secretary rose again showing no sign of annoyance. "I will
  report those findings to the Honorable Member as quickly as possible."
  "When? Tomorrow, next week, next year?" Raymond shouted angrily.
  "When?" joined in a chorus of Labour backbenchers, but the Speaker called
  for the next question above the uproar.
  Within the hour Raymond received a handwritten note from the Foreign
  Office. "If Mr. Gould would be kind enough to telephone, the Foreign
  Secretary would be delighted to make an appointment to see him."
  Raymond phoned from the Commons and was invited tojoin the Foreign
  Secretary in Whitehall immediately.
 The Foreign Office, known as "the Palazzo" by its in-
               173
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 mates, has an atmosphere of its own. Although Raymond had worked in a
 Government department as a Minister, he was still struck by its grandeur. He
 was met at the courtyard entrance and guided along yards of marble corridors
 before climbing a fine double staircase at the top of which he was greeted
 by the Foreign Secretary's principal private secretary.
  "Sir Alec Home will see you immediately, Mr. Gould," he said, and led
  Raymond past the magnificent pictures and tapestries that lined the way. He
  was taken into a beautifully proportioned room. The Foreign Secretary stood
  in front of an Adam fireplace over which hung a portrait of Lord
  Palmerston.
  "Gould, how kind of you to come at such short notice. I do hope it has not
  caused you any inconvenience." Platitudes, thought Raymond.
  "I know you are a busy man. Can we get down to the point at issue, Foreign
  Secretary?" Raymond demanded.
  "Of course," Sir Alec said drily. "Forgive me for taking so much of your
  time." Without a further word, he handed Raymond a file marked "Richard M.
  HodgeConfidential." "Although members of Parliament are not subject to the
  Official Secrets Act, I know you will respect the fact that this file is
  classified."
  Another bluff, thought Raymond. He flicked back the cover. It was true,
  exactly as he had suspected: In the six months since he had been jailed,
  Ricky Hodge had never been formally charged.
  He turned the page. "Rome, child prostitution; Marseilles, narcotics;
  Paris, black mail"-page after page, ending in Turkey, where Hodge had been
  found in possession of four pounds of heroin, which he had been selling in
  small packets on the black market. It was true that he had no criminal
  record in England, but at only twenty-nine, Ricky Hodge had spent eleven of
  the last fourteen years in foreign jails. 174
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Raymond closed the file and could feel the sweat on his forehead. It was
  some moments before he spoke. "I apologize, Foreign Secretary," he said. "I
  have made a fool of myself."
  "When I was a young man," said Sir Alec, "I made a similar mistake on
  behalf of a constituent. Ernie Bevin was Foreign Secretary at the time. He
  could have crucified me in the House with the knowledge he had. Instead he
  revealed everything over a drink in this room. I sometimes wish the public
  could see members in their quiet moments as well as in their rowdy ones."
  Raymond thanked Sir Alec and walked thoughtfully back to the House.

  When Raymond conducted his next office hours in Leeds North two weeks later
  he was surprised to see that Mrs. Bloxharn had made an appointment.
  When he greeted her at the door he was even more surprised, for in place of
  her shabby clothes and carpet slippers, she was wearing a new polished
  cotton dress and a shiny pair of squeaky brown leather shoes. She looked as
  if "Our Blessed Lady" might have to wait a few more years to receive her
  after all. Raymond motioned her to a seat.
  "I came to thank your wife, Mr. Gould," she said, once she was settled.
 "What for?" asked Raymond puzzled.
  "For sending that nice young man around from Chris-tees. They auctioned
  Great-Grandma's table for me. I couldn't believe my luck--it fetched
  fourteen hundred pounds." Raymond was speechless. "So it don't matter about
  the stain on the dress any more. It even made up for having to eat off the
  floor for three months."

  During the long hot summer of 1972, clause after clause of the Common
  Market Bill was voted on, often

               175
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 through the night. On some occasions, the Government managed majorities of
 only five or six, but somehow the bill remained intact.
  Charles would often arrive home at Eaton Square at three in the morning to
  find Fiona asleep, only to leave again before she had woken. Veterans of
  the House confirmed they had never experienced any issue so demanding since
  the Second World War.
  Then, suddenly, the last vote was taken and the marathon was over. The
  Common Market Bill was passed through the Commons and on its way to the
  House of Lords to receive their Lordships' approval. Charles wondered what
  he would do with all the hours that were suddenly left him in the day.
  When the bill finally received the "Royal Assent" in October, the Chief
  Whip held a celebration lunch at the Carlton Club in St. James's to thank
  all of his team. "And in particular, Charles Hampton," he said, raising his
  glass during an impromptu speech. When the lunch broke up, the Chief Whip
  offered Charles a tift back to the Commons in his official car. They
  traveled along Piccadilly, down Haymarket, through Trafalgar Square and
  into Whitehall. Just as the Commons came into sight, the black Rover turned
  into Downing Street, as Charles assumed, to drop the Chief Whip at Number
  12. But as the car stopped, the Chief Whip said, "The Prime Minister is
  expecting you in five minutes."
 "What? Why?" said Charles.
       it rather well, didn't V" said the -Chief Whip-and headed off toward
       Number 12.
  Charles stood alone in front of Number 10 Downing Street. The door was
  opened by a man in a long black coat. "Good afternoon, Mr. Hampton." The
  Prime Minister saw Charles in his study and, as ever, wasted no time on
  small talk.
  "Thank you for all the hard work you have put in on the Common Market
  Bill."

                176
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "It was a tremendous challenge," said Charles, searching for words.
  As will be your next job," said Mr. Heath. "It's time for you to test your
  skills in another department. I want you to take over as one of the
  Ministers of State at the Department of Trade and Industry."
 Charles was speechless.
  "With all the problems we are going to encounter with the trade unions
  during the next few months, that should keep you fully occupied."
 "It certainly will," said Charles.
  He still hadn't been asked to sit down, but as the Prime Minister was now
  rising from behind his desk, it was clear that the meeting was over.
  "You and Fiona must come and have dinner at Number Ten as soon as you've
  settled into your new department," said the Prime Minister as they walked
  toward the door.
 "Thank you," Charles said before leaving.
  As he stepped back onto Downing Street a driver opened the back door of a
  shiny Austin Westminster. It took Charles a moment to realize the car and
  driver were now his.
 "The Commons, sir.
  "No, I'd like to return to Eaton Square for a few minutes," said Charles,
  sitting back and enjoying the thought of his new job.
  The car drove past the Commons, up Victoria Street and on to Eaton Square.
  He couldn't wait to tell Fiona that all the hard work had been rewarded. He
  felt guilty about how little he had seen of her lately, although he could
  not believe it would be much better now that he was to be involved in
  trade-union legislation. How much he still hoped for a son-perhaps even
  that would be possible now. The car came to a halt outside the Georgian
  house. Charles ran up the steps and into the hall. He could hear his wife's
  voice coming from upstairs. He

               177
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 took the wide staircase in bounds of two and three at a time, and threw
 open the bedroom door.
  "I'm the new Minister of State at the Department of Trade and Industry,"
  he announced to Fiona, who was lying in bed.
  Alexander Dalglish looked up. He showed no sign of interest in Charles's
  promotion.

 178
 PART THREE

Ministers
of State

       kll~
      Im

 1973-11977
              14.

 SIMON STEERED the new Boundary Commission recommendations unspectacularly
 through the House as an order in Council, and suddenly he had lost his own
 constituency. His colleagues in Coventry were understanding, and nursed
 those wards that would become theirs at the next election in order that he
 might spend more time searching for a new seat.
  Seven seats became available during the year but Simon was only interviewed
  for two of them. Both were almost on the Scottish border, and both put him
  in second place. He began to appreciate what it must feel like for an
  Olympic favorite to be awarded the silver medal.
  Ronnie Nethercote's monthly board reports began to paint an increasingly
  somber picture, thus reflecting in real life what the politicians were
  lately decreeing in Parliament. Ronnie had once again decided to postpone
  going public until the climate was more advantageous. Simon couldn't
  disagree with the judgment, but when he checked his special overdraft
  facility, the interest on his loans had pushed up the figures in red to
  over ninety thousand pounds.
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  When unemployment first passed the million mark and Ted Heath ordered a pay
  and price freeze, strikes broke out all over the country.
  The new parliamentary session in the fall of 1973 was dominated by economic
  issues as the situation worsened. Charles Hampton once again became
  overworked as he negotiated far into the night with trade-union leaders.
  While he didn't win every argument, he was now so well briefed on his
  subject that he proved to be a competent negotiator for the Government.
  Raymond Gould rose to the occasion, making passionate speeches on behalf of
  the unions, but the Conservative majority beat them again and again.
  Prime Minister Heath was, however, moving inexorably toward a head-on clash
  with the unions and a premature General Election.
  When all three annual party conferences were over, members returned to the
  Commons aware that it was likely to bc the last session before a General
  Election. It was openly being said in the corridors that all the Prime
  Minister was waiting for was a catalyst. The miners' union provided it. In
  the middle of a bleak winter they called an all-out strike for more pay in
  defiance of the Government's new trade-union legislation. Suddenly Britain
  was on a three-day week.
  In a television interview, the Prime Minister told the nation that with
  unemployment now at an unprecedented 1,600,000 and the country on a
  three-day week, he had to call an election to insure that the rule of law
  be maintained. The inner cabinet advised Heath to run on February 28, 1974.
  "Who runs the country?" became the Tory theme, but this only seemed to
  emphasize class differences, rather than uniting the country as the Prime
  Minister had hoped.

               182
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Raymond Gould traveled back to Leeds, convinced that the northeast
  industrial area would not tolerate Heath's high-handedness.

  Charles felt sure that the people would back any party that had shown the
  courage to stand up to the unions, although the left wing, led vociferously
  by Tom Carson, insisted that the Government was out to crush the Labour
  movement once and for all. Charles drove down to Sussex to find his
  supporters glad of the chance to put those "Commie union bastards" in their
  place.

  On the night of the election Simon had a quiet supper with Elizabeth and
  the children. He watched in silence as others learned their election fates.

  Many months had passed before Charles had found it possible even to sustain
  a conversation with Fiona for any length of time. Neither wanted a divorce,
  both citing the ailing Earl of Bridgewater as their reason, although
  inconvenience and loss of face were nearer the truth. In public it was hard
  to detect the change in their relationship, since they had never been given
  to overt affection.
  Charles gradually became aware that it was possible for marriages to have
  been over for years without outsiders knowing it. Certainly the old earl
  never found out, because even on his deathbed he told Fiona to hurry up and
  produce an heir.
  "Do you think you'll ever forgive me?" Fiona once asked Charles.
  "Never," he replied, with a finality that encouraged no further discourse.
  During the three-week election campaign in Sussex they both went about
  their duties with a professionalism that masked their true feelings.
  "How is your husband bearing up?" someone would inquire.

               183
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Much enjoying the campaign and looking for-ward to returning to
  Government," said Fiona's stock reply.
  "And how is dear Lady Fiona?" Charles was continuously asked.
  "Never better than when she's helping in the constituency," was his.
  On Sundays, at one church after another, he read the lesson with
  confidence; she sang "Fight the Good Fight" in a clear contralto.
  The demands of a rural constituency are considerably different from those
  of a city. Every village, however small, expects the member to visit them
  and to recall the local chairmen's names. But subtle changes were taking
  place; Fiona no longer whispered the names in Charles's ear. Charles no
  longer turned to her for advice.
  During the campaign, Charles would ring the photographer on the local paper
  to discover which events his editor had instructed him to cover that day.
  With the list of places and times in his hand, Charles would arrive on each
  occasion a few minutes before the photographer. The Labour candidate
  complained officially to the local editor that Mr. Hampton's photograph was
  never out of the paper.
  "If you were present at these functions we would be only too happy to
  publish your photo," said the editor.
  "But they never invite me," cried the Labour candidate.
  They don't invite Hampton either, the editor wanted to say, but he somehow
  manages to be there. It was never far from the editor's mind that his
  proprietor was a Tory peer, so he kept his mouth shut.
  All the way up to Election Day Charles and Fiona opened bazaars, attended
  dinners, drew raffles and only stopped shor-t of kissing babies.
  Once, when Fiona asked him, Charles admitted that he hoped to be moved to
  the Foreign Office as a Minister of State.

               184
         FIRs-r AMONG EQUALS

  On the last day of February they dressed in silence and went off to their
  local polls to vote. The photographer was there on the steps to take their
  picture. They stood closer together than they had for some weeks, looking
  like a happily married couple, he in a dark suit, she in a dark suit.
  Charles knew it would be the main photograph on the front page of the
  Sussex Gazette the following day as surely as he knew the Labour candidate
  would be relegated to a hall'-column mention in the back, not far from the
  obituaries.
  Charles anticipated that by the time he amiived in the Town Hall the
  Conservative majority in the House would already be assured. But it was not
  to be, and as Friday morning dawned the result still hung in the balance.
  Edward Heath did not concede when the newscasters predicted he would fail
  to be given the overall majority he needed. Charles spent the day striding
  around the Town Hall with an anxious look on his face. The little piles of
  votes soon became larger, and it was obvious that he would hold the seat
  with at least his usual 2 1,000--or was it 22,000?-maj ority. He never
  could remember the exact figure. But as the day progressed it became more
  and more difficult to assess the national verdict.
  The last result came in from Northern Ireland a little after four o'clock
  that afternoon and a BBC commentator announced:

    LA.-BOUR                301
    CONSURVATI11F           296
    LIBFRAL                  14
    ULSTER UNIONISTS        I I
    SCOTTISH NATIONALIST      7
    WL,I.SH NATIONALISTS      2
    O,rf~ERS                  4

               185
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Ted Heath invited the Liberal Leader to join him at Downing Street for
  talks in the hope that they could form a coalition. The Liberals demanded
  a firm commitment to electoral reform to help the small parties. Heath knew
  he could never get his backbenchers to deliver. On Monday morning he told
  the Queen in her drawing room at Buckingham Palace that he was unable to
  form a government. She called for the Labour Leader, Harold Wilson. He
  accepted her commission and drove back to Downing Street to enter the front
  door. Heath left by the back.

  By Tuesday afternoon every member, having watched the drama unfold, had
  returned to London. Raymond had increased his majority and now hoped that
  the Prime Minister had long since forgotten his resignation and would offer
  him a job.
  Charles, still unsure of the exact majority by which he had won, drove back
  to London, resigned to returning to Opposition. The one compensation was
  that he would be reinstated on the board of Hampton's, where the knowledge
  he had gained in Parliament as a Minister of Trade and Industry could only
  be of value.
  Simon left the Home Office on March 1, 1974. Ronnie Nethercote immediately
  invited him to return to the board of Nethercote and Company at five
  thousand pounds a year, which even Elizabeth acknowledged as a generous
  gesture.
  It did little to lift Simon's spirits, for an empty red box was all he had
  to show for nearly ten years as a member of Parliament.
  Simon had gone from office to office saying goodbye, first to the senior
  and then to the junior civil servants, until only the cleaner,,, were left.
  They all seemed certain he would return soon.

               186
              15

 "HIS DIARY LOOKS RATHER FULL at the moment, Mr. Charles."
  "Well, as soon as it's convenient," Charles replied. He held the phone as
  he heard the pages being turned.
 "March twelfth at ten-thirty, Mr. Charles?"
 "But that's nearly two weeks away," he said, irritated.
  "Mr. Spencer has only just returned from the States and-"
  "How about a lunch, then-at my club?" Charles interrupted.
 "That couldn't be until after March twelfth-"
  "Very well, then," said Charles. "March twelfth at ten-thirty."
  During the fourteen-day wait Charles had ample time to become frustrated by
  his seemingly aimless role in Opposition. No car came to pick him up and
  whisk him away to an office where real work had to be done. Worse, no one
  sought his opinion any longer on matters that affected the nation. He was
  going through a sharp bout of what is known as "ex-Minister's blues."
  He was relieved when the day for the appointment with Derek Spencer at last
  came around. But although

               187
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 he arrived on time he was kept waiting for ten minutes before the chairman's
 secretary took him in.
  "Good to see you after so long," said Derek Spencer, corning around his
  desk to greet him. "it must be nearly six years since you'vc visited the
  bank."
  "Yes, I suppose it is," said Charles. "But looking around the old place, it
  feels like yesterday. You've been fully occupied, no doubt?"
  "Like a (4binet Minister, but I hope with better results."
 They both laughed.
  "Of course I've kept in touch with what's been happening at the bank."
 "Have you?" said Spencer.
  "Yes, I've read all the reports you've sent out over the past years, not to
  mention the Financial Times's coverage."
 "I hope you feel we've progressed in your absence."
  "Oh. Yes." said Charles, still standing. "Very impressive."
  "Well, now what can I do for you?" asked the chairman, returning to his
  seat.
  "Simple enough," said Charles, finally taking an unoffered chair. "I wish
  to be reinstated on the board."
 There was a long s1ence.
  "Well, it's not quite that easy, Charles. I've just recently appointed two
  new directors and . . ."
  "Of course it's that easy," said Charles, his tone changing. "You have only
  to propose my name at the next meeting and it will go through, especially
  as you haven't a member of the family on the board at the present time."
  "We have, as a matter of fact. Your brother, the Earl of Bridgewater has
  become a nonexecutive director."
  "What?" said Chades. "Rupert never told me. Neither did you."

               188
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "True, but things have changed since . . ."
  "Nothing has changed except my estimation of the value of your word," said
  Charles, suddenly realizing that Spenci~r had never intended he should
  return to the board. "You gave me your assurance-"
 "I won't be spoken io like this in my own office."
  "If you're not careful, the next place I shall do it will be in your
  boardroom. Now, will you honor your undertaking or not?"
  "I don't have to li.iten to threats from you, Hampton. Get out of my offict
  before I have you removed. I can assure you that you will never sit on the
  board again as long as I'm chairman."
  Charles turned and marched out, slamming the door as he left. He wasn't
  sure with whom to discuss the problem, and returned immediately to Eaton
  Square to Consider a plan of campaign.
               tl
  "What brings you home in the middle of the afternoon?" asked Fiona.
  Charles hesitated, considered the question and then joined his wife in the
  kitchen and told her everything that had happened at the bank. Fiona
  continued to grate some cheese as she listened to her husband.
  "Well, one thing is certain," she said, not having spoken for several
  minutes, but delighted that Charles had confided in her. "After that
  fracas, you can't both be on the board."
 "So what do you think I ought to do, old girl?"
  Fiona smiled; it was the first time he had called her that for nearly two
  years. "Every man has his secrets," she said. "I wonder what Mr. Spencer's
  are?"
 "He's such a dull rnlidlalle-ciass fellow, I doubt that-"
  "I've just had a letter frorn Hampton's Bank," interrupted Fioi)a.
 "What about?"
 "Only a shareholders' circular. It seems Margaret

               189
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Trubshaw i~, retiring after twelve years as the board secretary. Rumor has
 it she wanted to do five more years, but the chairman has someone else in
 mind. I think I might have lunch with her."
 Charles returned his wife's smile.

  Ronnie Nethercote had made Simon the personnel director for a company that
  now had nearly two hundred employees. Simon enjoyed negotiating with the
  trade union,,, at a level he had not experienced before. Ronnie made it
  clear how he would have dealt with the "Commie bastards" who had caused the
  fall of the Tory Government given half a chance.
  "You would have lasted about a week in the House of Commons," Simon told
  him.
  "After a -week with those windbags I would have been happy to return to the
  real world."
  Simon smiled. Ronnie, like so many others, imagined all members of
  Parliament were unemployable-except the one he knew.

  Raymond waited until the last Government appointment was announced before
  he finally gave up any hope of a job. Several leading political journalists
  pointed out that he had been left on the back benches while lesser men had
  been given Government posts, but it was scant comfort. Raymond reluctantly
  returned to his legal office to continue his practice at the bar.
  The Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, starting his third administration, made
  it clear that he would govern as long as possible before calling an
  election. But few members believed that he could hold out for more than a
  matter of months.

  Fiona returned home after her lunch with Miss Trubshaw with a large
  Cheshire cat grin on her face. It re-
  
               190
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 mained firmly in place during the hours she had to wait for Charles to get
 back from the Commons after the last division.
  "You look pleased with yourself," said Charles, shaking out his umbrella
  before closing the front door. His wife stood in the hallway, her arms
  crossed.
 "How has your day been?" she asked.
  "So-so," said Charles, wanting to hear the news. "But what about you?"
  "Oh, pleasant enough. I had coffee with your mother this mornuig. She seems
  very well. A little cold in the head, otherwise--2'
  "To hell with my mother. How did your lunch with Miss Trubshaw go?"
  "I wondered how long it would take you to get around to that."
  She continued to wait just as long as it took for them to walk into the
  drawing room and sit down. "After seventeen years as secretary to your
  father and twelve years as secretary to the board, there isn't much Miss
  Trubshaw doein't know about Hampton's or its present chairman," Fiona
  began.
 "So what did you discover?"
  "Which do you want to hear about first, the name of his mistress or the
  number of his Swiss bank account?"
  Fiona revealed everything she had learned over her two-hour lunch,
  explaining that Miss Trubshaw usually only drank fortified wine, but on
  this occasion she had downed most of a vintage bottle of Pommard. Charles's
  smile grew wider and wider as each fact came pouring out. To Fiona, he
  looked like a boy who has been given a big box of chocolates and keeps
  discovering another layer underneath the one he's already eaten.
  "Well done, old girl," he said when she had come to the end of her tale.
  "But how do I get all the proof I need?"

               191
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "I've made a deal with our Miss Trubshaw."
 "You've what?"
  "A deal. With Miss Trubshaw. You get the proof if she remains as
  secretary to the board for five more years, with no loss of pension
  benefits."
 "is that all she wants?" said Charles guardedly.
  "And the promise of another lunch at the Savoy Grill when you're invited
  back on the board."

  Unlike many of his Labour colleagues, Raymond enjoyed dressing up in
  white tie and tails and mixing with London society. An invitation to the
  bankers' annual banquet at the Guildhall was no exception. The Prime
  Minister was the guest of honor, and Raymond wondered if he would drop
  a hint as to how long he expected the parliamentary session to last
  before he felt he had to call an election.
  At the pre-dinner drinks, Raymond had a quick word with the Lord Mayor
  of London before becoming involved in a conversation with a circuit-court
  judge on the problems of the parity of sentencing.
  When dinner was announced, Raymond found his seat on one of the long
  sides stretching away from the main table. He checked his place card.
  Raymond Gould QC, MP. On his right was the chairman of Chloride, Michael
  Edwardes, and on his left an American banker who had just started work
  in the City.
  Raymond found Michael Edwardes' views on how the Prime Minister should
  tackle the nationalized industries fascinating, but he devoted far more
  of his attention to the financial analyst from Chase Manhattan. She must
  have been almost thirty, Raymond decided, if only because of her elevated
  position at the bank and her claim to have been an undergraduate at
  Wellesley at the time of Kennedy's death. He would have put Kate Garth-
  waite at far younger, and was not surprised to learn she

               192
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 played tennis in the summer and swam every day during the winter-to keep her
 weight down, she confided. Kate had a warm, oval face, and her dark hair was
 cut in what Raymond thought was a Mary Quant style. Her nose turned up
 slightly at the end and would have cost a lot of money for a plastic surgeon
 to reproduce. There was no chance of seeing her legs, as they were covered
 by a long dress, but what he could see left Raymond more than interested.
  "I see there's an 'M P' behind your name, Mr. Gould. May I ask which party
  you represent?" she asked in an accent common only in Boston.
  "I'm a Labourite, Mrs. Garthwaite. Where do your sympathies lie on this
  occasion?"
  "I would have voted Labour at the last election if I had been qualified,"
  she declared.
 "Should I be surprised?" he teased.
  "You certainly should. My ex-husband is a Republican Congressman."
  He was about to ask his next question when the toastmaster called for
  silence. For the first time Raymond turned his eyes to the dais and the
  Prime Minister. Harold Wilson's speech stuck firmly to economic problems
  and the role of a Labour Government in the City and gave no clue as to the
  timing of the next election. Nevertheless, Raymond considered it a
  worthwhile evening. He had made a useful contact with the chairman of a
  large public company. And he had acquired Kate's telephone number.

  The chairman of Hampton's reluctantly agreed to see him a second time, but
  it was obvious from the moment Charles walked in, when no hand was
  proffered, that Derek Spencer intended it to be a short interview.
  "I thought I ought to see you personally," said Charles as he settled back
  in the comfortable leather

               193
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 chair and slowly Lit a cigarette, "rather than raise my query at the
 annual meeting next month."
  The first sign of apprehension showed on the chairman's face, but he said
  nothing.
  'q'rn rather keen to discover why the bank should pay out a monthly check
  for four hundred pounds to an employee called Miss Janet Darrow, whom I
  have never come across, although it appears she has been on the payroll
  for over five years. The checks, it seems, have been going to a branch
  of Lloyd's in Kensington."
 Derek Spencer's face became flushed.
  "What I am at a loss to discover," continued Charles after he had inhaled
  deeply, "is what services Miss Darrow has been supplying to the bank.
  They must be quite impressive to have earned her twenty-five thousand
  pounds over the last five years. I appreciate that this is a small amount
  when you consider the bank's turnover of one hundred and twenty-three
  million last year, but my grandfather instilled in me at an early age the
  belief that if one took care of the pennies, the pounds would take care
  of themselves."
  Still Derek Spencer said nothing, although beads of sweat had appeared
  on his forehead. Suddenly Charles's tone changed. "If I find I am not a
  member of the board by the time of the annual general meeting, I feel it
  will be my duty to point out this slight discrepancy in the bank's
  accounts to the other shareholders present."
  "You're a bastard, Hampton," the chairman said quietly.
  "Now, that is not accurate. I am the second son of the former chairman
  of this bank and I bear a striking resemblance to my father, although
  everyone says I have my mother's eyes."
 "What's the deal?"
 "No deal. You will merely keep to your original

               194
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 agreement and see that I am reinstated on the board before the annual
 meeting. You will also cease any further payments to Miss Janet Darrow
 immediately."
  "If I agree, will you swear never to mention this matter to anyone again?"
  "I will. And unlike you, I'm in the habit of keeping my word." Charles rose
  from his chair. leaned over the desk and stubbed out his cigarette in the
  chairman's ashtray.

 "They've done whai?- said Joyce.
  The campaign manager repeated, "Two Communists have put their names forward
  for election to the General Purposes committee."
  "Over my dead body." Joyce's voice was unusually sharp.
  "I thought that would be your attitude," said Fred Padgett.
  Jovee searched for the pencil and paper that were normally on the table by
  the phone.
 "When's the meeting?" she asked.
 "Next Thijrsday."
 "Have we got reliable people to run against them?"
  "Of course." said Fred. "Councillor Reg Prescott and Jenny Simpkins from
  the League."
  "They're both sensible enough, but between them they couldn'L knock the
  skin off a rice pudding."
  "Shall I phone Raymond at the House and get him to come down for the
  meeting?"
  "No," said Joyce. "He's got enough to worry about trying to reestablish
  himself, now that we're back in Government. Leave it to me."
  She replaced the receiver and sat down to compose her thoughts. It was
  nonic that he was facing a threat from the extreme left just at the time
  when the unions were coming to respect his worth. A few minutes later

               195
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 she went over to her desk and rummaged about for the full list of the G.P.
 committee. She checked the sixteen names carefully, realizing that if two
 Communists were to get themselves elected this time, within five years they
 could control the committee-and then even remove Raymond. She knew how these
 people worked. With any luck, if they got bloody noses now, they might slink
 off to another constituency.
  She checked the sixteen names once more before putting on a pair of
  sensible walking shoes. During the next four days she visited several homes
  in the constituency. "I wasiust passing," she explained to nine of the
  wives who had husbands on the committee. The four men who never listened to
  a word their wives said were visited by Joyce after work. The three who had
  never cared for Raymond were left well alone.
  By Thursday afternooin, thirteen people knew only too well what was
  expected of them. Joyce sat alone hoping Raymond would call that evening.
  She cooked herself a Lancashir., hotpot but only picked at it, and then
  later fell aslec-p in front of the television while watching tier favorite
  program. The phone woke her at five past eleven.
 "Raymond?"
 "Hope I didn't wake you," said Fred.
  "No, no," said Joyce, now impatient to learn the outcome of the meeting.
  "What happened?"
  "Reg and Jenny walked away with it. Those two Communist bastards only
  managed three votes between them."
 "Well done," said Joyce.
  "I did nothing," ;aid Fred, "except count the votes. Shall I tell Raymond
  what's been happening?"
  "No," "id Joyce. "No need to let him think we've had any trouble."
  Joyce fell back into the chair by the phone, kicked off her watkin(y shoes
  aad went back to sleep.

               196
              off R
                      27 Eaton Square
                      London S W I
                      April 23, 1974

 Dear Derek,
   Thank youjor your letter (-J'April 18 andyour kind
 iniltation to rejoin the board of Hampton's. I am de
 lighted to accept and look Jbrward to working with
 you again.

               Yours sincerely,
               CIJARLES IJAMP TON

  Fiona checked the Wording and nodded. Short and to the point. "Shall I post
  it?"
 "Yes please," said Charles as the phone rang.
 He picked it up. "91112. Charles Hampton speaking." "Oh, hello. Charles.
 It's Simon Kerslake."
  "Hello, Simon," said Charles, trying to sound pleased to hear front his
  former colleague. "What's it like out there in the real world'?"
  "Not much fun, which is exactly why I'm phoning. I've been short-listed for
  Pucklebridge, Sir Michael Harbour-Baker's seat. He's nearly seventy and has
  decided not to )-un again in the next election. As his constituency touches
  the south border of yours, I thought you might be able to put in a word for
  me again."
  "Delighted." said Charles. "I'll speak to the chairman tonight. You can
  rely on me, and good luck. It would be nice to have you back in the House."
  Simon gave him his home number, which Charles repeated slowly, as if he
  were writing it down.

               197
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "I'll be in touch," said Charles.
 "I really appreciate your help."
 Simon put down the phone.
 Elizabeth closed her copy of her medical journal.

  She was lively, fun, intelligent and well informed. It had been several
  days before Kate Garthwaite agreed to see Raymond again, and when she
  eventually joined him for dinner at the House she was not overwhelmed or
  flattered, and she certainly didn't hang on his every word.
  They began to see each other regularly. As the months passed, Raymond found
  himself missing her on weekcn&, whenever he was in Leeds with Joyce. Kate
  seemed to enjoy her independence and made none of the demands on him that
  Stephanie had, never once suggesting that he spend more time with her or
  that she might leave clothes behind in the flat.
  Raymond sipped his coffee. "That was a memorable meal," he said, falling
  back onto the sofa.
  "Only by the standards of the House of Commons," replied Kate.
  Raymond put an arm around her shoulder before kissing her on the lips.
  "What? Rampant sex as well as cheap Beaujolais?" she exclaimed, stretching
  over and pouring herself some more coffee.
  "I wish you wouldn't always make a joke of our relationship," said Raymond,
  stroking the back of her shiny hair.
 "I have to," said Kate quietly.
 "Why?" Raymond turned to face her.
  "Because I'm frightened of what might happen if I took it seriously."

  Charles sat through the annual meeting in silence. The chairman made his
  report for the fiscal year ending

               198
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 March 1974 before welcoming two new directors to the board and the return
 of Charles Hampton.
  There were several questions from the floor, which Derek Spencer had no
  trouble in handling. As Charles had promised, there was not even a hint
  of Miss Janet Darrow. Miss Trubshaw had let Fiona know that the payments
  had been stopped, and also mentioned that she was still worried that her
  contract was coming to an end on July 1.
  When the chairman brought the annual meeting to a close Charles asked
  courteously if he could spare him a moment.
  "Of course," said Spencer, looking relieved that the meeting had gone
  through without a hitch. "What can I do for you?'"
  "I think it might be wiser to talk in the privacy of your office."
  The chairman glanced at him sharply but led him back to his office.
  Charles settled himself comfbrtably in the leather chair once more and
  removed some papers from his inside pocket. Peering down at them he
  asked, "What does BX41207122, Bank Rombert, Zurich, mean to you?"
 "You said you would never mention--"
  "Miss Darrow," said Charles. "And I shall keep my word. But now, as a
  director of the bank, I am trying to find out what BX41207122 means to
  you?"
  "You know damn well what it means," said the chairman, banging his
  clenched fist on the desk.
  "I know it's your private-" Charles emphasized the word-"account in
  Zurich."
  "You can never prove anything," said Derek Spencer defiantly.
  "I agree with you, but what I am able to prove," said Charles, shuffling
  through the papers that now rested on his lap, "is that you have been
  using Hampton's money

               199
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 to do private deals, leaving the profits in your Zurich account without
 informing the board."
  "I've done nothing that would harm the bank and you know it."
  "I know the money has been returned with interest, and I could never prove
  the bank had suffered any loss. Nevertheless, the board might take a dim
  view of your activities, remembering that they pay you forty thousand
  pounds a year to make profits for the bank, not for yourself."
  "When they saw all the figures, they would at worst rap me over the
  knuckles."
  "I doubt if the director of public securities would take the same lenient
  attitude if he saw these documents," said Charles, holding up the papers
  that had been resting on his lap.
 "You'd ruin the bank's name."
  "And you would probably spend the next ten years in jail. If, however, you
  did get away with it, you would be finished in London, and by the time your
  legal fees had been paid there wouldn't be much left of that nest egg in
  Zurich."
  "So what do you want this time?" demanded Spencer, sounding exasperated.
 "Your j ob, " s aid Charles
  "My job?" asked Spencer in disbelief. "Do you imagine because you've been
  a junior Minister you're capable of running a successful merchant bank?" he
  added scornfully,
  "I didn't say I would run it. I can buy a competent chief executive to do
  that."
 "Then what will you be doing?"
  "I shall be the chairman of Hampton's, which will convince City
  institutions that we wish to continue in the traditions of generations of
  my family."
 "You're bluffing," stammered Spencer.
"If you are still in this building in twenty-four hours' 2W
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 time," said Charles, "I shall send these to the director of public
 securities."
 There was a long silence.
  "if agreed," said Spencer at last, "I would expect two years' salary as
  compensation."
  "One year," said Charles. Spencer hesitated, then nodded slowly. Charles
  rose to his feet and put the papers resting on his lap back into his inside
  pocket.
  They consisted of nothing more than the morning mail from his Sussex
  constituents.

  Simon felt the interview had gone well, but Elizabeth was not so sure. They
  sat huddled in a room with five other candidates and their wives, patiently
  waiting.
  He thought back to his answers, and to the eight men and four women on the
  committee.
  "You must admit it's the most ideal seat I've been considered for," said
  Simon.
 "Yes, but the chairman kept eying you suspiciously."
  "But Millburn mentioned that he had been at Eton with Charles Hampton."
 "That's what worries me," whispered Elizabeth.
  "A fifteen thousand majority at the last election, and only forty minutes
  from London. We could even buy a little cottage."
 "if they invite you to represent them."
  "At least this time you were able to tell them you would be willing to live
  in the constituency."
  "So would anyone in their right mind," said Elizabeth.
  The chairman came out and asked if Mr. and Mrs. Kerslake would be kind
  enough to return once more to see the committee.
  Oh, God, thought Simon, what else can they want to know?
  "It's too near London to be my fault this time," chuckled Elizabeth.

               201
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The Committee sat and stared at them with long faces.
  "Ladies and gentlemen," said the chairman. "After our lengthy
  deliberations, I formally propose that Mr. Simon Kerslake be invited to
  contest Pucklebridge at the next election. Those in favor ...
 All twelve hands went up.
 "Those against .. ."
  "Carried unanimously," said the chairman. He then turned to Simon. "Do you
  wish to address your committee?"
  The prospective Conservative Member of Parliament for Pucklebridge rose.
  They all waited expectantly.
  "I don't know what to say, except that I'm very happy and honored and I
  can't wait for a General Election."
  r Fhey all laughed and came forward and surrounded them. Elizabeth dried
  her eyes before anyone reached her.
  About an hour later the chairman accompanied Simon and Elizabeth back to
  their car and bade them goodnight. Simon wound down his window.
  "I knew you were the right man," Millburn said, "as soon as CKarles Hampton
  phoned-" Simon smiled"and warned me to avoid you like the plague."

  "Could you tell Miss Trubshaw to come in?" Charles asked his secretary.
  Margaret Trubshaw arrived a few moments later and remained standing in
  front of his desk. She couldn't help but notice the change of furniture in
  the room. The modern Conran suite had been replaced by a leather clublike
  sota and chairs. Only the picture of the eleventh Earl of Bridgewater
  remained in place.
  "Miss Trubshaw," began Charles, "since Mr. Spencer has felt it rjecessary
  to resign so suddenly, I think it important for the bank to keep some
  continuity now that I'm taking over as chairman."

               202
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Miss Trubshaw stood like a Greek statue, her hands hidden in the
  sleeves of her dress.
  "With that in mind, the board has decided to extend your contract with
  the bank for a further five years. Naturally, there will be no loss in
  your pension rights."
 "Thank you, Mr. Charles."
 "Thank you, Miss Trubshaw."
 Miss Trubshaw almost bowed as she left the room.
 "And, Miss Trubshaw---2'
  "Yes, Mr. Charles," she said, holding onto the doorknob.
  "--I believe my wife is expecting a call from you. Something about
  inviting you to lunch at the Savoy Grill."

 203
              16

 "A BLUE SHIRT," said Raymond, looking at the Turnbull and Asser label with
 suspicion. "A blue shirt," he repeated.
  "A fortieth birthday present," shouted Kate from the kitchen.
  I shall never wear it, he thought, and smiled to himself *
  .And what's more, you'll wear it," she said, her Boston accent carrying a
  slight edge.
  "You even know what I'm thinking," he complained as she came in from the
  kitchen. He always thought she looked so elegant in her tailored office
  clothes.
 "It's because you're so predictable, Red."
 "Anywa.y, how did you know it was my birthday?"
  "A massive piece of detective work," said Kate, "with the help ofan outside
  agent and a small payment."
 "An oubide agent. Who?"
  "The local newspaper store, my darling. In the Sunday Times they tell you
  the name of every distinguished person celebrating a birthday in the
  following seven days. In a week during which only the mediocre were born,
  you were featured."

               204
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Raymond had to laugh.
 "Now listen, Red."
  He pretended to hate his new nickname. "Do you have to call me by that
  revolting name?"
  "Oh, stop making such a fuss, Red, and try on your shirt."
 "Now?"
 14NOW."

  He took off his black coat and waistcoat, removed his white shirt and
  eased the stud on his stiff collar, leaving a small circle above his
  Adam's apple. Curly red hairs sprang up all over his chest. He quickly
  put on the new shirt. The iabric had a pleasant soft feel about it. He
  started to do up the buttons, but Kate walked over and undid the top two.
  "You know what',' You've brought a whole new meaning to the word
  'uptight.' But in the right clothes, you could even pass as good-
  looking.
 Raymond scowled.
 "Now whcre shall we go to celebrate your birthday?"
 "The House of Commons?" suggested Raymond.
  "Good God," said Kate. "I said celebrate, not hold a wake. What about
  Annabel's?"
 "I can't afrord to be seen in Annabel's."
 "With me, you mean?"
 "No, no, you silly woman, because I'm a Labourite."
  "If mernhers of the Labour Party are not allowed to indulge in a good
  meal, then perhaps it's time for you to change parties. In my country one
  only sees the Democrats in the '-),-st restaurants."
 "Oh, do be serious, Kate."
  "I intend to be. Now what have you been up to in the House late]y?"
  "Not a lot," said Raymond sheepishly. "I've been snowed under in court
  and . . ."
  "Precisely. It's time you did something positive before your colleagues
  in Parliament forget you exist."
                    rD

               205
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Have you anything particular in mind?" asked Rayrriond, folding his arms
  across his chest.
  "As a matter of fact, I have," said Kate. "I read in the same Sunday papej
  as the one in which I discovered your best-kept secret that it is proving
  difficult for the Labour Party to repeal the Tories' trade-union legisla-
  tion. It appears there are long-term legal implications which the front
  bench is still trying to find a way around. Why don't you set that
  so-called first-class mind of yours on working out the legal niceties?"
  "Not such a stupid idea." Raymond had become used to Kate's political
  sense. When he'd remarked on it she'd only said, "Just another bad habit I
  picked up from my ex-husband. Now where do we celebrate?" she asked.
 "Compromise," said Raymond.
 "I'm all cars."
 "The Dorchester.`
  "If you insist," said Kate, not sounding overenthusiastic.
 Raymond started to change his shirt.
  "No, no, no, Red, people have been known to wear blue shirts at the
  Dorchester."
  "But I haven't got a tie to match," said Raymond triumphantly.
  Kate thriist her hand into the Turnbull and Asser bag and drew out a
  dark-blue silk tie.
  "But it'sgot a pattern on it," said Raymond in disgust. "What will you
  expect next?"
 "Contact lenses," said Kate.
 Raymond stared at her and blinked.
  On the way out the door, Raymond's gaze fell on the brightly wrapped
  package that Joyce had mailed from Leeds earlier in the week. He'd
  completely forgotten to open it.

               206
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Damn," said Charles, putting down the Times and draining his coffee.
  "What's the problem?" asked Fiona as she poured out another cup.
  "Kerslake's been selected for Pucklebridge, which means he's back in the
  House for life. Obviously my chat with Archie Millburn had no effect."
 "Why have you got it in for Kerslake?" asked Fiona.
  Charles folded the paper and considered the question. "It's quite simple
  really, old girl. I think he's the only one of my contemporaries who
  could stop me from leading the Tory Party."
 "Why him in particular?"
  "I first came across him when he was President of the Oxford Union. He
  was damn good then, and now he's better. He had rivals but he brushed
  them aside like flies. No, despite his background, Kerslake's the one man
  left who frightens me."
  "It's a long race yet, my darling, and he could still stumble."
  "So could 1, but I'll simply have to put more hurdles out for him. Damn,"
  said Charles again, looking at his watch, "I'm late."
  He picked up his Times, kissed his wife on the forehead and rushed out
  to the waiting car.
  The door closed as the phone rang. Fiona answered it. "Fiona Hampton
  speaking."
  "It's Simon Kerslake. I wondered if Charles was there?"
  "No, I'm afraid you've just missed him. May I take a message?"
  "Yes. I wanted to let him know that I'd been selected for Pucklebridge,
  and Archie Millburn left me in no doubt how much Charles did to insure
  that I was offered the seat. And by the same token, do thank him for
  delivering my whips to me so assiduously. I understand I was

               207
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the only member to receive such personal attention. Be assured if ever I can
 return the favors I shall not hesitate to do so."
 The phone went dead.

  Simon listened intently to Ronnie's report at the monthly board meeting.
  Two tenants had not paid their quarterly rent, and another quarter deadline
  was fast approaching. Ronnie's solicitors had sent firm reminders, followed
  a month later by legal letters, but this action had also failed to elicit
  any money.
 "It only proves what I feared most," said Ronnie.
 "What's that?" asked Simon.
 "They j ust haven't got the cash."
 "So we will have to replace them with new tenants."
  "Simon, when you next travel from Beaufort Street to Whitechapel, start
  counting the 'For Rent' signs on office blocks along the way. When you've
  passed a hundred you'll find you still haven't reached the outskirts of the
  city ofLondon.-
 "So what do you think we ought to do next?"
  "Try and sell one of our larger properties in order to secure cash flow. We
  can at least be thankful that our capital assets are still considerably
  more valuable than our borrowings. It's the companies which have it the
  other way around that have started calling in the receiver."
  Simon thought about his overdraft now approaching one hundred thousand
  pounds and was beginning to wish he had taken tip Ronnie's generous offer
  to buy back his shares. He knew that chance had now passed.
  When the board meeting was over, Simon drove to St. Mary's to pick up
  Elizabeth. It was to be one of their three-times-a-week journeys to
  Pucklebridge as Simon tried to get around to all the villages before Wilson
  called an election.
Archie Millburn, whohad accompanied them on 208
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 nearly every trip, was turning out to be a conscientious chairman.
  "He's been very kind to us," said Elizabeth, on their way down to Sussex.
  "He certainly has," said Simon. "Remembering he also has to run Millburn
  Electronics. But, as he reminds us so often, once he's introduced us to
  every village chairman we'll be on our own."
  "Have you ever discovered why he ignored Charles Hampton's advice?"
  "No, he hasn't mentioned his name since that night. All I know for
  certain is that they were at school together."
 "So what do you intend to do about Hampton?"
 "I've already dealt with that little matter."

  Raymond was the most talked-about backbencher in the House.
  He made such a penetrating speech during the second reading of the new
  Trade Union Bill that the Whips put him on the standing committee-the
  perfect medium for him to display his skills as the committee debated
  each clause, point by point. He was able to show his colleagues where the
  legal pitfalls were and how to find a way round them, and it was not long
  before trade-union leaders were calling him at the Commons, and even at
  his flat, to learn his views on how their members should react to a host
  of different legal problems. Raymond showed patience with each of them
  and, more important, gave them excellent professional advice for the
  price of a phone call. He found it ironic how quickly they chose it)
  forget that he had written Full Employment at Any Cost?
  Snippets began to appear in the national press, ranging from laudatory
  comments from those involved with the bill to a pointed suggestion in the
  Guardian that, whatever had happened in the past, it would be insup209
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 portable ifRaymond Gould were not made a member of the Government in the
 near future.
  "If they were to offer you a job, would it make any difference to our
  relationship?" Kate asked.
  "Certainly," said Raymond. "I shall have found the perfect excuse not to
  wear your blue shirts."
  Harold Wilson held the crumbling edifice together for a further six months
  before finally having to call a General Election. He chose October 10,
  1974.

  Raymond immediately returned to his constituency to fight his fifth
  campaign. When he met Joyce at Leeds City station he couldn't help
  remembering that his dumpy wife was only four years older than Kate. He
  kissed her on the cheek as one might a distant relative; then she drove him
  back to their Chapel Allerton home.
  Joyce chatted away on the journey home, and it became clear that the
  constituency was under control and that this time Fred Padgett was well
  prepared for a General Election. "He hasn't really stopped since the last
  one," she said. Undoubtedly, Joyce was even better organized than the
  campaign manager and the secretary joined together. What was more, Raymond
  thought, she enjoyed it.
  Unlike his colleagues in rural seats, Raymond did not have to make speech
  after speech in little village halls. His votes were to be found in the
  High Street, where he addressed the midday shoppers through a megaphone and
  walked around supermarkets, pubs, clubs, shaking hands, and then repeated
  the whole process.
  Joyce set her husband a schedule that allowed few people in the Leeds
  community to escape him. Some saw him a dozen times during the three-week
  campaign.
  Once the game was over, Raymond was back trooping around the workingmen's
  clubs, drinking pint after pint

               210
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 of bitters. He accepted it as inevitable that he would put on five or ten
 pounds (luring any election campaign. He dreaded what Kate's comment would
 be when she saw him.
  Somehow he always found a few minutes in each day to steal away and phone
  her. She seemed so busy and full of news it only made Raymond feel
  downcast; she couldn't possibly be missing him.
  The local trade unionists backed Raymond to the hilt. They may have found
  him stuck-up and distant in the past, but "he knows where his heart is."
  they confided to anyone who would listen. They banged on doors, delivered
  leaflets. drove cars to the polls. They rose before he did in the morning
  and could still be found preaching to the converted when the pubs threw
  them out at night,
  Raymond and Joyce cast their votes in the local secondary school on the
  Thursday of Election Day, looking forward to a large Labour victory.

  The Labour Party gained a working majority in the House of forty-three
  over the Conservatives, but only three over all the parties combined.
  Nevertheless Harold Wilson look~d set foranother five years when the
  Queen invited him to form his fourth administration.
  The count in Leeds that night gave Raymond his biggest majority ever:
  14,207 votes. He spent the whole of Friday and Saturday thanking his
  constituents, then prepared to travel back to London on Sunday evening.
  "He must invite you to join the Government this time." said Joyce.
  "I wonder," said Raymond as he kissed his wife on the cheek. Jie waved
  at her as the train pulled out of Leeds City station. She waved back
  enthusiastically.
  "I do like your new blue shirt, it really suits you," were the last words
  he heard her say.

               211
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  During the election campaign, Charles had had to spend a lot of time at the
  bank because of a run on the pound. Fiona seemed to be everywhere in the
  constituency at once, assuring voters that her husband wasjust a few yards
  behind.
  After the little slips were counted, the swing against Charles to the
  Labour candidate didn't amount to more than I percent in his 22,000
  majority. When he heard the national result, he returned to London resigned
  to a long spell in Opposition. As he began to catch up with his Tory
  colleagues in the House, he found many of them already saying openly that
  Heath had to go after two election defeats in a row.
  Charles knew then that he would have to make up his mind once again on
  where he stood over the election of a new Party Leader, aadlihat once again
  he must pick the right man.

  Simon had a glorious campaign. He and Elizabeth had started moving into
  their new cottage the day the election was announced, thankful that her
  salary at the hospital made it possible for them to employ a nanny for
  Peter and Lucy now that she had to commute. A double bed and a couple of
  chairs sufficed as Elizabeth cooked on an old wood stove from food still
  packed in tea chests. They seemed to use the same forks for everything.
  During the campaign Simon covered the twohundred-square-mile constituency
  for a second time and assured his wife that she need only take the final
  week off from her duties at St. Mary's.
  The voters of Pucklebridge sent Simon Kerslake back to Parliament with a
  majority of 18,419, the largest in the constituency history. The local
  people had quickly come to the conclusion that they now had a member who
  was destined to have a Cabinet career.

               212
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Kate kept her remarks very gentle as it became obvious by Monday night
  that the Prime Minister was not going to offer Raymond ajob in the new
  administration. She cooked his favorite rneal of roast beef---overdoneand
  Yorkshire pudding in the flat that night, but he didn't commcnt on it;
  he hardly spoke at all.

 213
              17

 AFTER SIMON HAD BEEN BACK at the Commons for a week, he felt a sense of
 djjd vu. The sense was heightened by finding everything unchanged, even
 the policeman who greeted him at the members' entrance. When Edward Heath
 announced his Shadow team, Simon was not surprised that he wasn't
 included, as he never had been known as a supporter of the Tory Leader.
 He was, however, mystified but not displeased to discover that Charles
 Hampton was not among the names to be found in the Shadow Cabinet.

  "Do you regret turning him down now the full team has been published?"
  asked Fiona, looking up from her copy of the Daily Mail.
  "It wasn't an easy decision, but I think it'll prove right in the long
  run," replied Charles, buttering another piece of toast.
 "What did he offer in the end?"
 "Shadow Minister of Industry."
 "That sounds rather interesting," said Fiona.
 "Everything about it was interesting except the salary,

               214
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 which would have been nothing. Don't forget, the bank still pays me forty
 thousand a year while I'm chairman."
  Fiona folded her paper. "Charles, what's the real reason?"
  Charles accepted that he could rarely fool Fiona. "The truth is that I'm
  Jar from certain Ted will be leading the Party at the next election."
 "Then who will if he doesn't?" asked Fiona.
 "Whoever's got the guts to oppose him."
  "I'm not sure I understand," said Fiona beginning to clear away the plates.
  "Everyone accepts that he has to run again for reelection now that he's
  lost twice in a row."
 "That's fair enough," agreed Fiona.
  "But as he has appointed all possible contenders to the Cabinet or Shadow
  Cabinet over the last ten years, someone he has selected in the past will
  have to oppose him. No one of lesser stature would stand a chance."
  "is there a member of the Shadow Cabinet willing to run?" asked FioDa
  returning to her seat at the end of the table.
  "One or two are considering it, but the problem is that if they lose it
  could easily end their political career," said Charjes.
 "But if one of them wins?"
 "He will undoubtedly be the next Prime Minister."
  "Interesting, dilemma. And what are you going to do about it?"
  "I'm Dot supporting anyone for the moment, but I've got my eyes wide open,"
  said Charles, folding his napkin and rising from the table.
  "Is there a front-run tier?" asked Fiona, looking up at her husband.
  "No, not really, although Kerslake is trying to rally support for Margaret
  Thatcher. But that idea is doomed from the start."

               215
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "A woman leading the Tory Party? Your lot haven't got the imagination to
  risk it," said Elizabeth, tasting the sauce. "The day that happens I'll eat
  my one and only Tory hat in full view of all the delegates at the party
  conference."
  "Don't be so cynical, Elizabeth. She's the best bet we've got at the
  moment."
  "But what are the chances of Ted Heath stepping aside? I always thought the
  Leader of the party stays on until he is hit by the mythical bus. I don't
  know Heath very well, but I can't ever imagine him resigning."
  "I agree," said Simon. "So the 1922 Committee made up of all the
  backbenchers will have to change the rules."
  "You mean the backbenchers will pressure him to resign?"
  "No, but a lot of the Committee in their present mood would be willing to
  volunteer as driver for that mythical bus."
  "If that's true, lie must realize that his chances of holding on are slim."
  "I wonder if any Leader ever knows that," said Simon.

  "You ought to be in Blackpool next week," said Kate, resting her elbow on
  the pillow.
  "Why Blackpool?" asked Raymond, staring up at the ceiling.
  "Because, Red, that's where they are holding this year's Labour Partv
  conference."
  "What do you imagine I could hope to accomplish there?"
  "You'd be seen to be alive. At present you're just a rumor in trade-union
  circles."
  "That's not fair," Raymond said indignantly. "I give them mort. advice than
  I give my clients."

               216
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "All the inore reason to go and spend a few days with them."
  "But if you're not a Minister or a trade-union leader, all you do at a
  party conference is spend four days eating foul food, sleeping in seedy
  guest houses, and applauding for other people's second rate speeches."
  "I've no interest in where you put your weary head at night, but I do want
  you to revive your contacts with the unions during the day."
  "Why9" said Raymond. "That lot can't influence my career."
  "Not at the moment," said Kate. "But I predict that, like my fellow
  Americans at their conventions, the Labour Party will one day select its
  Leader at the Party conference."
  "Never," said Raymond. "That is and will always remain the prerogative of
  elected members of the House of Commons."
  "That's the sort of crass, shortsighted, pompous statement I would expect
  a Republican to make," said Kate as she covered his head with a pillow. She
  lifted up a comer and whispered in his ear, "And have you read any of the
  resolutions to be debated at this year's Labour conference?"
 "A few," came back Raymond's muffled reply.
  "Then it might serve you well to note Mr. Anthony Wedgwood Benn's
  contribution," she said removing the pillow.
  "What's that crazy left-winger enlightening us on this time?"
  "He's calling on 'conference,' as he insists on describing your gathering
  of the brothers, to demand that the next Leader be chosen by a full vote of
  the delegates, making up an electoral college from all the constituencies,
  the trade-union movement and Parliament-I suspect in that order."

               217
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "Madness."
  "Today's extremist is tomorrow's moderate," said Kate blithely.
 "A typical American generalization."
 "Benjamin Disraeli, actually."
 Raymond put the pillow back over his head.

  As soon as Raymond stepped off the train at Blackpool Station, he knew Kate
  had been right to insist he attend the conference. He shared a taxi to his
  hotel with two trade-union leaders who treated him as if he were the local
  Lord Mayor.
  When he checked into the hotel, he was pleasantly surprised that Jamie
  Sinclair, who was now a Home Office Minister, had been booked into the next
  room. Thev agreed to have lunch together the following day. Sinclai'r
  suggested an excellent restaurant just outside of Blackpool, and it soon
  became clear that he regularly attended the conference.
  Although they had both been in the House for ten years, it was the first
  time they discovered how much they had in common.
  "You inust have been disappointed when the PM didn't ask you to rejoin the
  Government," began Sinclair.
  Raymond paused, staring at the menu. "Very," he finally admitted.
  "Nevertheless, you were wise to come to Blackpool, because this is where
  your strength lies,"
 "You think so?"
  "Come on. Evervbody knows you're the trade unions' pin-up boy, and tfiey
  still have a lot of influence as to who sits in the Cabinet."
 "I haven't noticed," said Raymond mournfully.
 "You will when they eventually choose the Leader."
  "That's funny, that's exactly what ... Joyce said last week."

               218
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Sensible girl, Joyce. I fear it will happen in our time as members."
  A waitress appeared at their side and they both ordered.
  "I doubt it," said Raymond, "and I can tell you one thing. I would oppose
  the idea, which wouldn't make me popular with the unions."
  "Perhaps. But every party needs a man like you, and the union leaders
  wouldn't mind if you were a card-carrying Fascist-, they'd still back you."
  "I'l] tell you something-I'd trade it all in for your job at the Home
  Office. I didn't go into politics to spend my life on the benches."
  As he spoke, the chairman of the Boilermakers' Union shouted across as he
  passed their table, "Good to see you, Ray." lie showed no recognition of
  Jamie. Raymond turned and smiled at the man waving as Caesar might have
  done to Cassius.

  "Have you decided how you're going to vote in the Leadership battle?" asked
  Fiona over breakfast.
  "Yes," replied Charles. "And at this point in my career, I can't afford to
  make the wrong choice."
 "So who have you decided on?" asked Fiona.
  "While there isn't a serious contender willing to oppose Ted Heath, it
  remains in my best interest to continue backing him."
  "Isn't there one shadow Cabinet Minister who has the guts to run against
  him?"
  "The rumor grows that Margaret Thatcher will act as whi i i I If she gets
  close enough to force a second
  ,pping gir . ballot, the serious contenders will then join in."
 :'What if she won the first round?"
  'Don't be silly, Fiona," said Charles, taking more interest in his
  scrambled egg. "The Tory Party would never elect a woman to lead them.
  We're far too hidebound and traditional. That's the sort of immature mis-
  
               219
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 take the Labour Party would make to prove how much they believed in
 equality."

  Simon was still pusbing Margaret Thatcher to throw her hat in the ring.
 "She certainly has enough of them," said Elizabeth.

  It amused Raymond to watch the Tory Party Leadership struggle while he
  got on with his job. Raymond would have dismissed Thatcher's chances if
  Kate hadn't reminded him that the Tories had been the first and only
  party to choose a Jewish leader in Benjamin Disraeli, and a bachelor in
  Ted Heath.
  "Why shouldn't they be the first to elect a woman?" she demanded. He
  would have continued to argue with Kate, but the damn woman had proved
  to be right so often in ihe past.

  The 1922 Conim ittee announced that the election for Tory Leader would
  take place on February 4, 1975. At a press conference in early January
  at the House of Commons, Margaret Thatcher. still the only woman in the
  Shadow Cabinet, announced she would allow herself to be nominated for the
  Leadership. Simon immediately spent his time exhorting his colleagues to
  support "the lady" and joined a small committee that was formed for the
  purpose. Charles Hampton warned his friends that the party could never
  hope to win a general election with a woman Leader. As the days passed,
  nothing became clearer than the uncertainty of the outcome.
  At fout- o'clock on a particularly wet and windy day, the chairman of the
  1922 Committee announced the figures:

      MARGARET THATCHER  130
      EDWARc) HEATH      119
      Hucm FRASER         16

               220
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  According to the 1922 Committee rules, the winner needed a 15 percent
  majority, and so a second round was necessary. "It will be held in seven
  days' tirae," the Chief Whip announced. Three former Cabinet Ministers
  immediately declared they were candidates. Ted Heath, having been warned
  that he would get even fewer votes the second time around, withdrew from
  the second ballot.
  The next seven days were the longest in Simon's life. He did everything
  in his power to hold Thatcher's supporters together. Charles meanwhile
  decided to play the second round very low key. When the time came to
  vote, he put his cross on the ballot paper next to the former Secretary
  of State he bad served under at Trade and Industry. "A man we can all
  trust," he told Fiona.
  When the votes had been finally counted, the chairman of the 1922
  Committee announced that Margaret Thatcher was the outright winner with
  a vote of 146 to 79 for her nearest challenger.
  Simon was delighted, while Elizabeth hoped he had forgotten about her
  promise to eat her hat. Charles was dumbfounded. They both wrote to their
  new Leader immediately.

Qrrrm
9W
              Vrx=
              sr""

Februar 11, 1975 y
 Dear Margaret,
  Many congratulations on your victory as the first
 woman Leader of our Party. I was proud to have
 played a smallpart in your triumph and will continue
 to workJor your success at the next election.

                          Yours,
                          SIMON

               221
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

                    27 Eaton Square London SW I
                    February 11, 1975

 Dear Ilargaret,
  I made no secret oj'backing Ted Heath in thefirst round ()/,the leadership
  contest, having had the privilege oj'serving it, his administration. I was
  delighted to have supportedyou on the second ballot. It illustrates how
  progressive our Pariv is that we have chosen a woman who will undoubtedly
  be Britain's next Prime ffinister.
  Be assured qf my loyalty.

                         Yours,
                         CHARLES

  Margai-et'rhatcher answered all her colleagues' letters within the week.
  Simon received a handwritten letter inviting him tojoin the new Shadow
  team as number two in the Education Department. Charles received a typed
  note thanking him for his letter of support.

 222
              18

 HAMPTON's BANK had weathered the Great War, the thirties crash, and then the
 Second World War. Charles had no intention of being the chairman who
 presided over its demise in the seventies.
  Soon after taking over from Derek Spencer-at the board's unanimous
  insistence-Charles discovered that being chairman wasn't quite as relaxed
  a job as he had expected. He lacked the knowledge and expertise to run
  Hampton's on a day-to-day basis.
  While Charles remained confident that the bank could ride the storm, he
  wasn't taking any risks. The business news sections of the newspapers were
  full of stories of the Bank of Englapd's acting as a "lifeboat" and having
  to step in to assist ailing financial institutions, along with the daily
  reports of the collapse of yet another property company. The time when
  property values and rents automatically increased each year had become a
  thing of the past.
  When he had accepted the board's offer, Charles insisted that a chief
  executive be appointed to carry out the professional business while he
  remained the man with whom other City chairmen dealt. Charles inter-
  
               223
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 viewed several people for the position but he did not find anyone suitable.
 Head-hunting seemed to be the next move, the expense of which was saved when
 he overheard, at a conversation at the next table at White's. that the newly
 appointed chief executive at the First Bank of America was sick of having to
 report to the board in New York every time he wanted to use a firstclass
 stamp. -
  Charles immediately invited the First Bank of America's chief executive to
  lunch at the House of Commons. Clive Reynolds had come from a background
  similar to Derek Spencer's: London School of Economics, followed by the
  Harvard Business School, and a series of successful appointments which had
  culminated in his becoming chief executive of the First Bank of America.
  This similarity did not worry Charles, as he made it clear to Mr. Reynolds
  that any appointee would be the chairman's man.
  When Reynolds had been offered the appointment he had driven a hard
  bargain, and Charles looked forward to his doing the same for Hampton's.
  Reynolds ended up with fifty thousand pounds a year and enough of a profit
  incentive to insure that he didn't deal for himself or encourage any other
  head-hunters to invite him to join their particular jungle.
  "He's not the sort of fellow we could invite to dinner," Charles told
  Fiona, "but his appointment will enable me to sleep at night knowing the
  bank is in safe hands."
  Charles's choice was rubber-stamped by the board at their next meeting, and
  as the months passed it became obvious that the First Bank of America had
  lost one of its prime assets below market value.
  Clive Reynolds was a            conservative by nature, but
 when he (hd take what Charles described as a risk--and
 what Reynolds called a "hunch"-more than 50 percent
 of such risks paid off. While Hampton's kept its reputa
 tion for caution and good husbandry under Charles, it
               224
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 managed a few quite spectacular coups thanks to their new chief executive.
  Reynolds had enough sense to treat his new chairman with respect without
  ever showing undue deference, while their relationship remained at all
  times strictly professional.
  One of Reynolds's first innovations had been to suggest that they check on
  every customer account over two hundred anil fifty-thousand pounds, and
  Charles had approved.
  "When you've handled the account of a company for many years." Reynolds
  pointed out, "it sometimes is less obvious when one of your traditional
  customers is heading for trouble than it would be with a newcomer. If there
  are any 'lame ducks,' let's discover them before they hit the ground"--a
  metaphor that Charles repeated at several weekend parties.
  Charles enjoyed his morning meetings with Clive Reynolds, where he picked
  up a great deal about a profession to which he had previously only brought
  gut feeling and common sense. In a short time he learned enough from his
  new tutor to make him sound like David Rockefeller when he rose to speak in
  a finance debate on the floor of the House-an unexpected bonus.
  Charles knew little of Reynolds's private life except what was on file. He
  was forty-one, unmarried, and lived in Esher, wherever that was. All
  Charles cared about was that Reynolds arrived each morning at least an hour
  before him, and left after him every night, even when the House was in
  recess.
  Charles had studied fourteen of the confidential reports on customers %ith
  loans over two hundred and fifty thousand pounds. Clive Reynolds had
  already picked out two companies with whom he felt the bank should revise
  its current position.
  Charles still had three more reports to consider before he presented a full
  assessment to the board.

               225
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The quiet knock on the door, however, meant that it was ten o'clock and
  Reynolds had arrived to make his daily report. Rumors were circulating in
  London that the bank rate would go up on Thursday, so Reynolds wanted to go
  short on dollars and long on gold. Charles nodded. As soon as the
  announcement had been made about the bank rate, Reynolds continued, "It
  will be wiser to return to dollars, as the new round of pay negotiations
  with the unions is about to take place. This, in turn, will undoubtedly
  start a fresh run on the pound." Charles nodded again.
  "I think the dollar is far too weak at two ten," Reynolds added. "With the
  unions settling at around twelve percent, the dollar must strengthen, say,
  to nearer one ninety." He added that he was not happy about the bank's
  large holding in Slater Walker, Inc., and wanted to liquidate half the
  stock over the next month. He proposed to do so in small amounts over
  irregular periods. "We also have three other major accounts to consider
  before we make known our findings to the board. I'm concerned about the
  spending policy of one of the companies, but the other two appear stable.
  I think we should go over them together when you have time to consider my
  reports. Perhaps tomorrow morning, if you could manage that. The companies
  concerned are Speyward Laboratories, Blackies Limited and Nethercote and
  Company. It's Speyward I'm worried about."
  "I'll take the files home tonight," said Charles, "and give you an opinion
  in the morning."
 "Thank you, Chairman."
  Charles had never suggested that Reynolds call him by his first name.

  Archie Millburn held a small dinner party to celebrate Simon's first
  anniversary as the member for Pucklebridge. Although these occasions had
  originally been to introduce the Party hierarchy to their new member,

               226
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Simon now knew more about the constituency and its flock than Archie did, as
 Archie was the first to admit.
  Elizabeth, Peter and Lucy had settled comfortably into their small cottage,
  while Simon, as a member of the Shadow Education team, had visited
  schools--nursery, primary, public and secondary; universities-red brick,
  plate glass and Oxbridge; technical colleges, art institutes and
  correctional centers. He had read Butler, Robbins, Plowden, and had
  listened to children and to professors of psychology alle. He felt that
  after a year he was beginning to understand the subject, and only longed
  for a General Election so that he could once again turn rehearsal into
  performance.
  "Opposition must be frustrating," observed Archie when the ladies had
  retired after dinner.
  "Yes, but it's an excellent way to prepare yourself for Government and do
  some basic thinking about the subject. I never found time for such luxury
  as a Minister."
  "But it must be very different from holding office?" said Archie, clippm'g
  a cigar.
  "True. In Government," said Simon, "you're surrounded by civil servants who
  don't allow you to lift a finger or give you a moment to ponder, while in
  Opposition you caa think policy through even if you do often end up having
  to type your own letters."
  Archie pushed the port down to Simon's end of the table. "I'm glad the
  girls are out," said Archie conspiratorily, "because I wanted you to know
  I've decided to give up being chairman at the end of the year."
 "Why?" asked Simon, taken aback.
  "I've seen you elected and settled in. It's time for a younger man to have
  a go."
 "But you're only my age."
  "I can't deny that, but the truth is that I'm not giving enough time to my
  electronics company, and the board is continually reminding me of it. No
  one has to tell you that these are not easy times."

               227
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "It's sad," said Simon. "Just as you get to know someone in politics, you
  or they always seem to move on."
  "Fear not," said Archie. "I don't intend to leave Pucklebridge, and I
  feel confident that you will be my member for at least another twenty
  years, by which time I'll be quite happy to accept an invitation to
  Downing Street."
  "You may find that it's Charles Hampton who's living at Number Ten," said
  Simon, as he struck a match to light his cigar.
  "Then I won't get an invitation," said Archie with a smile.

  CharleF couldn't sleep that night after his discovery, and his tossing
  and turning kept Fiona awake. He had opened the Nethercote file when he
  was waiting for dinner to be served. His first act with any company was
  to glance down the names of the directors to see if he knew anyone on the
  board. He recognized no one until his eye stopped at "S. J. Kerslake,
  MP." The cook felt sure that Mr. Hampton had not enjoyed his dinner,
  because he hardly touched the main course.
  On his arrival at Hampton's only moments after Clive Reynolds, he called
  for his chief executive. Reynolds appeared a few minutes later without
  his usual armM of files, surprised to see the chairman in so early. Once
  Reynolds was seated, Charles opened the file in front of him. "What do
  you know about Nethercote and Company?"
  "Private company. Net assets value approaching ten million pounds,
  running a current overdraft of seven million, of'which we service half.
  Efficiently managed, with a good board of directors, will ride out the
  current problems, in my view, and should be well oversubscribed when they
  eventually go public."
 "How much of the company do we own?"

               228
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Seven and a halt' percent. As you know, the bank never takes eight percent
  of any company because then we would have to declare an interest under
  Section Twenty-three of the Finance Act. It has always been a policy of
  this bank to invest in a major client without becoming too involved with
  the running of the company."
 "Who are their principal bankers?"
 "The Midland."
  "What would happen if we put our seven and a half percent up for sale and
  did not renew the overdraft facility at the end of the quarter but called
  it instead?"
 "They would have to seek financing elsewhere."
 "And if they couldn't?"
  "They would have to start selling their assets, which under that sort of
  forced-sale position would be very damaging for any company, if not
  impossible in the present climate."
 "And then?"
 "I would have to check my file and .
  Charles passed over the file and Reynolds studied it carefully, frowning.
  "They already have a cash flow problem because of bad debts. With a sudden
  increased demand, they might go under. I would strongly advise against such
  a move, Chairman. Nethercote has proved a reliable risk over the years, and
  I think we stand to make a haiidsome profit when they are quoted on the
  Stock Exchange."
  "For reasons I camiot disclose to you," said Charles, looking up from his
  chair, "I fear that remaining involved with this company may turn out to be
  a financial embarrassment for liampton's." Reynolds looked at him, puzzled.
  "You will inform the Midland Bank that we will not be renewing this loan at
  the next quarter."
 "Then they would have to look for support from an-
               229
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 other bank. The Midland would never agree to shoulder the entire amount
 on their own."
  "And try to dispose of our seven and a half percent immediately."
  "But that could lead to a crisis of confidence in the company."
 "So be it," said Charles, as he closed the file.
 "But I do feel . . ."
 "That will be all, Mr. Reynolds."
  "Yes, Chairman," said the mystified chief executive, who had never
  thought of his boss as an irrational man. He turned to leave. Had he
  looked back he would have been even more mystified 'by the smile that was
  spread across Charles Hampton's face.

  "They've pulled the rug out from under our feet," said Ronnie Nethercote
  angrily.
  "Who?" said Simon, who had just come into the room.
 "The Midland Bank."
 "Why would they do that?"
  "An outside shareholder put all his stock on the market without warning,
  and the Midland was unwilling to continue such a large overdraft because
  it was not convinced that the company's assets still covered the value
  of the shares."
  "Have you been to see the manager?" asked Simon, unable to disguise his
  anxiety.
  "Yes, but he can't do anything. His hands are tied by a main board
  directive," said Ronnie, slumping deeper into his seat.
 "How bad is it?"
  "They've given me a month to find another bank. Otherwise I'll have to
  start selling some of our assets."
  "What would be the outcomc if we don't manage to come up with another
  bank?" asked Simon desperately.

               230
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I could be bankrupt within a month. Do you know any banker who can smell
  out a good deal?"
 "Only one, and I can assure you he wouldn't help."

  Charles put the phone down, satisfied. He wondered if there was anything
  that could still be regarded as secret. It had taken him less than an hour
  to find out the size of Kerslake's overdraft. "Banker-to-banker
  confidentiality," he had assured them. He was still smiling when Reynolds
  knocked on the door.
 "The Midland were not pleased," he told Charles.
  "They'll get over it," his chairman replied. "What's the latest on
  Nethercote?"
  "Only a rumor, but everyone now knows they're in trouble and the chairman
  is searching around for a new backer," said Reynolds impassively. "His
  biggest problem is that no one is touching property companies at the
  moment."
  "Once they've collapsed, what's to stop us picking up the pieces and
  making, a killing?"
  "A clause that was slipped through in the finance act which your government
  passed three years ago. The penalties range from a heavy fine to having
  your banking license takeen away."
  "Oh, yes, I rememi)er," said Charles. "Pity. So how long do you expect
  them. to last?"
  "Once the month is up," said Reynolds, stroking a clean-shavei,i chin, "if
  they fail to find a backer, the creditors w0l swarm in like locusts."
  "Aren't the shares worth anything?" asked Charles innocently.
  "Not the paper they are written on at the moment," said Reynolds, watching
  his chairman carefully.
  This time the chief executive couldn't miss the chairman's smile as Charles
  thought of Simon Kerslake and his overdraft of one hundred and eight
  thousand

               231
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 pounds, now backed by worthless shares. Pucklebridge would soon be looking
 for a new member.

  At the end of a month during which no bank came to his rescue, Ronnie
  Nethercote caved in and agreed to call in the receiver and file a
  bankruptcy notice. He still hoped that he could pay off all his creditors
  even if the shares he and his fellow directors held remained worthless.
  He felt as worried for Simon and his career as he did for himself, but
  he knew there was nothing the receiver would allow him to do to help one
  individual.
  When Simon told Elizabeth that night, she didn't cry. She was a fatalist
  at heart, and had always feared the outcome of her husband's joining the
  board of Nethercote's.
  "Can't Ronnie help you? After all, you've supported him enough in the
  past."
  "No, he can't," said Simon avoiding tefling her where the real
  responsibility for his downfall lay.
  "Do bankrupts automatically have to leave Parliament?" was Elizabeth's
  next question.
  "No, but I shall because I could never be considered for further
  promotion-I'd always be rightly tainted with 'lack of judgment.' 11
  "It seeins so unfair when you weren't personally to blame."
  "There are different rules for those who wish to live in the spotlight,"
  Simon said simply.
 "But in time, surely-" began Elizabeth.
  "I'm not willing to remain on the back benches for another twenty years
  only to hear whispered in the corner of the smoking room '. . . Would
  have made the Cabinet if it hadn't been for . .."'
  Elizabeth's next question saddened Simon. "Does that mean we will have
  to give up the nanny,9"
  Not necessarily, but we both may have to make sacrifices in order to keep
  her part time."

               232
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "But my work at the hospital . . ." began Elizabeth not completing the
  sentence. "So what happens nextT she asked hurriedly.
  "I'll have to tell Archie Millburn tonight. I've already written my letter
  of resignation to hand to him. I shall make an appointment to see the Chief
  Whip on Monday to explain to him why I am going to apply for the Chiltern
  Hundreds."
 "What does that mean?"
  "It's one of the few ways of leaving the House in midsession--,other than
  dying. Officially it's a nominal office under the Crown which debars you
  from membership in the House."
 "It all sounds rather formal to me," said Elizabeth.
  "I'm afraid it will cause an embarrassing by-election in Pucklebridge,"
  Simon admitted.
 "Can nobody help'?"
  "There aren't a lot of people around who have a spare hundred and eight
  thousand pounds for a worthless bunch of shares."
  "Would you like me to come with you when you go to see Archie?" Elizabeth
  asked, rising from her seat.
 "No, darling. It's kind of you to ask."
  Elizabeth leaned over and pushed back the hair that had fallen over his
  forehead. She couldn't help noticing some gray strands that must have
  appeared in the last few weeks. At that moment she felt like strangling
  Ronnie Nethercote.
  Simon drove slowly down to Pucklebridge to keep his impromptu appointment
  with the chairman. Archie Millburn, standing hands on hips in his garden,
  listened to the tale with a sad face. "It's been happening to a lot of good
  people in the city lately-but what I can't understand is, if the company
  owns such prime properties, why has no one made a takeover bid? Sounds as
  if it's a divestiture specialist's dream."
 "It appears to be a matter of confidence," said Simon.

               233
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "A sacred word in the City," agreed Archie, while he continued to prune his
  Roosevelts and Red Mistresses.
  Simon handed him the prepared letter of resignation, which Millburn read
  over and reluctantly accepted.
  "I won't mention this to anyone until you've seen the Chief Whip on Monday.
  I'll call a special meeting of the full committee on Tuesday evening and
  inform them of your decision then."
  The two men shook hands. "Your misfortune is our misfortune," said Archie.
  "In a very short time you've gained the respect and the affection of the
  local people. You'll be imissed."
  Simon (trove back to London, and, although the car radio was on, he did not
  take in the news flash that they kept repeating every thirty minutes.

  Raymond was aniong the first to hear the announcement, and was stunned by
  it. Harold Wilson was going to resign less than halfway through the
  five-year Parliament, and for no apparent reason other than that he had
  just passed his sixtieth birthday. He proposed to remain Prime Minister
  only so long as the Labour Party took to select its new Leader, who would,
  Raymond hoped, serve out the full term. Raymond and Kate sat glued to the
  television, picking up every scrap of information they could. They
  discussed the implications far into the night.
  "Well, Red, could this mean rehabilitation for our forgotten hero?"
 "Who can say?"
 "Well, if you can't, who can?"
 "The next Leadei, perhaps," said Raymond.

  The fight for the Leadership was a straight battle between the left and
  right wings of the Labour Party, James Callaghan on the right and Michael
  Foot on the left. It was with some relief that Raymond saw Cal-
  
               234
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 laghan, despite losing the first ballot, come through to be elected
 Leader. The Queen duly called for Callaghan and asked him to form a new
 Government. As tradition demands, all serving Ministers of the Government
 sent their resignations to Downing Street to allow the new Prime Minister
 to select his own team.
  Raymond was in court listening to the judge's summing up when his junior
  passed him a note: "Please call 10 Downing Street as soon as possible."
  The judge took a further thirty minutes to meticulously explain to the
  jury the legal definition of manslaughter before Raymond could escape.
  He ran down the corridor and stopped at one of the clerks' private boxes
  to make the call. The dial rotating back into place after each number
  seemed to take forever.
  After he eventually got through three people, a voice said, "Good
  afternoon, Raymond": the unmistakable gravelly tones of the new Prime
  Minister. "I think it's time you joined the Government-" Raymond held his
  breath- "as Minister of State at the Department of Trade." Minister of
  State: only one place off the Cabinet.
 "You still there, Raymond?"
 "Yes, Prime Minister, and I'd be delighted to accept.
  He put the phone down, immediately picked it up again and dialed the City
  office of the Chase Manhattan bank. They put him through to the chief
  systems analyst.

 "Ronnie phoned while you were in the bath."
 "I'll call him as soon as I reach the House."
  Neither of them spoke for several minutes. Then Elizabeth asked, "Are
  yoti dreading it?"
  "Yes, I am," said Simon. "I feel like a condemned man eating his last
  breakfast, and the worst thing is I have to drive myself to the gallows."
 "I wonder if we wili ever Itaugh about today?"

               235
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "No doubt--when I collect my parliamentary pension."
 "Can we live off that?"
  "Hardly. I don't get the first payment until I'm sixtyfive, so we have a
  long wait to find out." He got up. "Can I give you a lift to the hospital?"
  he asked.
  "No, thanks, I intend to savor the joys of being a twocar family for at
  least another week."
  Simon kissed his wife and left for his appointment with the Chief Whip at
  the House of Commons.

  The policeman at the gate saluted as he drove in. "Good morning, sir," he
  said.
  "Good morning," said Simon. When you salute next time I'll have to say
  goodbye, he thought morosely. He parked his car on the second level of the
  new underground parking lot and took the escalator up to the members'
  entrance. He couldn't help remembering that ten years ago he would have
  taken the stairs. He continued through the members' cloakroom, up the
  marble staircase to the members' lobby. Habit made him turn left into the
  little post office to check whether he had any mail.
  "Mr. Kerslake," the man behind the counter called into an intercom, and a
  few seconds later a parcel and a packet of letters held together by a thick
  elastic band thudded into an office basket. Simon left the parcel marked
  London University and the letters on the desk in his room and checked his
  watch: over forty minutes before his appointment with the Chief Whip. He
  went to the nearest phone and dialed Nethercote and Company. Ronnie
  answered the phone himself.
  "Sacked the telephone operator last Friday," he explained. "Only me and my
  secretary left."
  "You called, Ronnie-" a millimeter of hope in Simon's voice.
 "Yes, I wanted to express how I felt. I tried to write

               236
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 you a letter over the weekend but I'm not very good with words." He
 paused. "Nor, it seems, with figures. I just wanted to say how desperately
 sorry I am. Elizabeth told me you were going to see the Chief Whip this
 morning. I'll be thin-king of you."
  "That's kind, Ronnie, but I went into it with my eyes wide open. As an
  advocate of free enterprise, I can hardly complain when I turn out to be
  one of its victims."
  "A very philosophical attitude for this time of the morning."
 "How are things at your end?"
  "The receiver's checking the books. I still believe we can get out with
  all our creditors fully paid. At least that way I'll avoid the stigma of
  bankruptcy." There was a longer pause. "Oh, Christ, that was tactless.
  11
  "Don't worry about it, Ronnie. The overdraft was my decision." Simon
  already wished he had been as frank with his wife.
 "Let's have lunch one day next week."
  "it will have to be somewhere that takes food stamps," said Simon wryly.
 "Good luck, mate," said Ronnie.
  Simon decided to fill up the remaining thirty minutes at the House by
  going to the library and glancing over the rest of the morning papers.
  He settled himself in a comer of the library next to the fireplace over
  which hung a notice reminding members not to have overloud or prolonged
  convcrsations.
  The story of the probable breakup of Nethercote and Company was detailed
  on the financial pages. It quoted approvingly Ronnie's view that all
  creditors ought to be paid in full. Not one of the articles mentioned
  Simon's name, but he could already anticipate the headlines in tomorrow's
  paper: "The Rise and Fall of Simon Kerslake." Over ten years' work
  quickly forgotten, he would be old news within a week.

               237
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The library clock inched toward the hour that he could no longer put off.
  Simon heaved himself out of the deep leather chair like an old man and
  walked slowly toward the Chief Whip's office.
  Miss N(ITSe, the C'hief's ancient secretary, smiled benignly as fie came
  in.
  "Good morning, Mr. Kerslake," she said brightly. "I'm afraid the Chief is
  still with Mrs. Thatcher, but I did remind him of your appointment so I
  don't expect him to be long. Would you care to have a seat?"
 "Thank you," he said.
  Alec Pimkin always claimed that Miss Norse had a set patter for every
  occasion. His imitation of her saying "I hope I find you in rude health,
  Mr. Pimkin" had brought chuckles to the members' dining room on many occa-
  sions. He must have exaggerated, thought Simon.
  "I hope I find you in rude health, Mr. Kerslake," said Miss Norse, not
  looking up from her typing. Simon choked back a laugh.
  "Very rude, thank you," he said, wondering how many tragic stories or tales
  of lost opportunities Miss Norse had had to listen to over the years. She
  stopped suddenly and looked at her notepad.
  "I should have mentioned it to you before, Mr. Kerslake-a Mr. Nethercote
  rang."
 "Thank you, I've spoken to him already."
  Simon was leafing through an out-of-date copy of Punch when the Chief Whip
  strode in.
  "I can spare you one minute, Simon, one and a half if you are going to
  resign," he said, laughing, and marched off toward his office. As Simon
  followed him down the corridor, the phone by Miss Norse's side rang. "It's
  for you, Mr. Kerslake," she shouted to their retreating backs.
 Simon turned and said, "Can you take the number?"
 "He says it's urgent."
 Simon stopped, hesitating. "With you in a moment,"

               238
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 he said to the Chief Whip, who disappeared into his office. Simon walked
 back and took the phone from Miss Norse's outstretched hand.
 "Simon Kerslake here. Who is it?"
 "It's Ronnie."
 "Ronnie," said Simon flatly.
  "I've just had a cail from Morgan Grenfell. One of their clients has made
  an offer of one pound twenty-five a share for the company and they're
  willing to take over the current liabilities."
 Simon was trying to do the sums in his head.
  "Don't bother working it out," Ronnie said. "At one twenty-five, your
  shares would be worth seventy-five thousand pounds."
  "It won't be enough," said Simon, as he recalled his overdraft of 108,712
  pounds, a figure etched in his memory.
  "Don't panic. I've told them I won't settle for anything less than one
  pound fifty a share, and it has to be within seven days, which will give
  them ample time to check the books. That would bring you in ninety thou-
  sand, but you would still be eighteen thousand down the Swanee, which
  you'll have to learn to live with. If you sell the wife as well as the
  second car, you should just about survive."
  Simon could tell by the way his friend was speaking that Ronnie already had
  a cigar between his lips.
 "You're a genius."
  "Not me---Morgan Grenfell. And I bet they'll make a handsome profit in the
  long run for their unnamed client, who seemed to have all the inside
  information. If you're still on for lunch next Tuesday, don't bring your
  food stamps. It's on me."
  Simon put the phone down and kissed Miss Norse on the forehead. She was
  completely taken aback by a situation for which she had no set reply. She
  remained silent as the Chief Whip peeked his head out of his office. "An
  239
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 orgy in the Chief Whip's office?" he said. "You'll be on page three of the
 Sun next, Miss Norse." Simon laughed. "I've got a crisis on over tonight's
 vote," the Chief Whip continued. "The Government is reneging on our agree-
 ment for pairing, and I have to get a delegation back from Brusiels in time
 for the ten o'clock division. Whatever it is, can it wait, Simon?"
 "Yes, ot'course."
  "Can you come to my office, Miss Norse-if I can drag you away from James
  Double-O-Seven Kerslake?"
  Simon left and almost bounced to the nearest phone. He called both
  Elizabeth and Archie Millburn to let them know the news. Elizabeth was
  ecstatic, while Archie didn't sound ail that surprised.

  "Don't you think it might be wise for us to stop seeing each other?"
  "Whyl" said Raymond. "Palmerston had a mistress when he was seventy, and he
  still beat your precious Disraeli, came the election."
  "Yes, but that was before the days of a dozen national newspapers and
  investigative journalism. FrankIv, it wouldn't take a Woodward and
  Bernstein more than a few hours to discover our little secret."
 "We'll be all right. I've destroyed all the tapes."
 "Do be serious."
 "You're always telling me I'm far too serious."
 "Well, I want you to be now. Very."
  Raymond turned to face Kate. "I love you, Kate, and I know I always will.
  Why don't we stop this charade and get married?"
  She sighed. "We've been over this a hundred times. I shall want to return
  to America eventually, and in any case I wouldn't make a very good Prime
  Minister's wife."
  "Three American women have in the past," said Raymond sulkily.

               240
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "To hell with your historical precedents-and what's more, I hate Leeds."
 "You've never been there."
 "I don't need to if it's colder than London."
  "Then you'll have to be satisfied with being my mistress." Raymond took
  Kate in his arms. "You know, I used to think being Prime Minister was worth
  every sacrifice, but now I'm not so sure."
  "It's still worth the sacrifice," said Kate, "as you'll discover when you
  live at Number Ten. Come on, or my dinner will be burned to a cinder."
  "You haven't noticed these," said Raymond smugly, pointing down at his
  feet.
 Kate stared at the fashionable new loafers.
  "I nevei thought the day would come," she said. "Pity you're starting to go
  bald."

  When Simon returned home his first words were, "We'll survive."
  "But what have you done about the resignation letter9" asked Elizabeth
  anxiously.
  "Archie Millburn said he would return it the day I became Prime Minister."
  "Well, that's a relief," Elizabeth said. "And now that the worst's behind
  us, I want you to promise me just one thing."
 "Anything."
 "You will never speak to Ronnie Nethercote again."
  For a moment, Simon hesitated, before saying, "That's not completely fair,
  because I haven't been totally straight with you from the beginning." He
  then sat Elizabeth down on the sofa and told her the whole truth.
 It was Elizabeth's turn to remain silent.
  "Oh, hell," she said eventually, looking up at Simon. "I do hope Ronnie can
  forgive me."
 "What are you talking about?"

               241
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I phoned him back soon after you left for the Commons and I spent at
  least ten minutes telling him why he was the biggest two-faced bastard
  I'd ever met, and that I didn't want to hear from him again in my life."
  It was Simon's turn to collapse onto the sofa. "How did he respond?" he
  asked anxiously.
  Elizabeth faced her husband. "That's the strange thing, he didn't even
  protest. He just apologized."

  Charles paced up and down the room angrily. "Give me the figures again."
  "Nethercote has accepted a bid of seven million five hundred thousand,
  which works out at one pound fifty a share," said Clive Reynolds.
  Charles stopped at his desk and scribbled the figures down on a piece of
  paper. Ninety thousand pounds, leaving a shortfall of only eighteen
  thousand pounds. It wouldn't be enough. "Damn," he said.
  "I agree," said Revnolds, "I always thought we were premature to lose our
  position in the company in the first place."
  "An opinion you will not voice outside this room," said Charles.
 Clive Reynolds did not reply.
  "What's happened to Nethercote himself?" asked Charles, searching for any
  scrap of information he could find about Simon Kerslake.
  "I'm told he's starting up again in a smaller way. Morgan Grenfell was
  delighted by the deal and the manner in which he handled the company
  during the takeover. I must say we let it fall into their laps."
  "Can we get any stock in the new company9" asked Charles, ignoring his
  comment.
  "I'd doubt it. It's only capitalized at one million, although Morgan
  Grenfell is giving Nethercote a large overdraft facility as part of the
  deal."

               242
         FIRs'r AMONG EQUALS

  "Then all that remains necessary is to see the matter is never referred
  to again."

 "Dad, can I have a leather soccer ball, please?"
 "What's wrong with the one you've got?"
  "It's made of rubber and doesn't bounce like the proper ones they use in
  school matches. Besides, it's too small."
 "It will have to do, I'm afraid."
  "But Martin Henderson's dad has given him a fullsized leather ball to
  start the new season."
  "I'm sorry, son, the truth is that Martin Henderson's father is far
  better off than I am."
  "I'll tell. you one thing," said Peter with feeling. "I'm sure not going
  to be an MP when I grow up." Simon smiled as his son kicked the ball
  toward him. "I'll bet you can't score against me even with a small ball."
  "Don't forget, we still only have small goalposts," said Si-non.
  "Stop making excuses, Dad, just admit you're past your prime."
  Simon burst out laughing. "We shall see," he said with more bravado than
  conviction. At the age of eight Peter was already able to dribble and
  shoot with a confidence that was beginning to look ominous. An old school
  friend had recently warned him that "By twelve they begin to beat you,
  and by fifteen they hope not to show they aren't trying their hardest any
  more."
  Simon still needed to try his hardest before he managed to score against
  Peter and take his place in the goal. He then watched Peter's fiercest
  shots safely into his arms and was again thankful that the goal was not
  full size.
  He kept his son's best shots out for another twenty minutes before Lucy
  came to join them in the garden. Simon couldn't help noticing that she
  was wearing a

               243
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dress already too tight around the shoulders. "Supper's ready, Dad," she
 said, and ran back inside. He cursed again at the sacrifices his own selfish
 greed had brought upon the family and marveled at how little they com-
 plained.
  Elizabeth looked tired as she served up hamburgers and chips for the
  family, and then Simon remembered she had to be back on duty at St. Mary's
  by eight that night. Thank God he hadn't married Lavinia MaxwellHarrington,
  he thought, as he looked up at his wife. Lavinia would not have hung around
  for hamburgers and chips.
 "How did you get on?" asked Elizabeth.
  "I'll survive," said. Simon, still thinking about his overdraft.
  "I'll kill him next time," said Peter, "once I get a real ball."

 Raymond dug deeper into the red box.
 "You enjoying yourself, Red?"
 "It's fascinating," said Raymond. "Do you know--?" "No, I don't. You haven't
 spoken to me in the last three hours, and when you do it's to tell me how
 you spent the day with your new mistress."
 "My new mistress?"
 "The Secretary of State for Trade."
 "Oh, him. 11
 "Yes, him."
  "What sort of day did you have at the bank?" asked Raymond, not looking up
  from his papers.
 "I had a most fascinating day," replied Kate.
 "Why, what happened?"
 "One of our customers required a loan," said Kate. "A loan," repeated
 Raymond, still concentrating on the file in front of him. "How much?"
  'How much do you wantT I said. 'How much have you gotT they asked. 'Four
  hundred seventeen billion at 244
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the last count,' I told them. 'That will do tine to start with,' they
 said. 'Sign here,' I said. But I couldn't close the deal be--ause the lady
 concerned was only in posses.sion of a fifty pound banking card."
  Raymond burst out laughing and slammed down the lid of the red box. "Do
  you know why I love you?"
 "My taste in men's clothes?" suggested Kate.
 "No, no. Just your taste in men."
  "I always thought that mistresses were supposed to get fur coats, trips
  to the Bahamas, the odd solitaire diamond, yet all I evet get is to share
  you with your red box."
  Raymond opened the box once more, took out a small package a;)d handed
  it to Kate.
 "What's, this?"
 "Why don't you open it and find out?"
  Kate slipped off the purple Asprey paper and found inside an exquisitely
  made miniature solid-gold replica of the red box on a gold chain. The
  neat lettering on the side of the lid read, "For Your Eyes Only."
  *'Although they don't announce the birthdays of Ministers' mistresses in
  the Sunday Tinies, I haven't forgotten the apniversary of the day we
  met."

 245
              19

 ONCE THE CHANCELLOR had presented his budget, in November 1976, the long
 process of the Finance Bifl, confirming all the new measures proposed, fully
 occupied the House. Charles, although not a member of the front-bench
 Finance team, regularly took the lead among backbenchers on clauses on which
 he had a specialist's knowledge.
  He and Chve Reynolds studied the new Finance Bill meticulously and between
  them picked out the seven clauses that would have an adverse effect on
  banking.
  Reynolds guided Charles through each clause, suggesting changes, rewording,
  and on some occasions presenting an argument for deleting whole sections of
  the bill. Charles learned quickly and was soon adding his own ideas; one or
  two made even Clive Reynolds reconsider. After Charles had put forward
  amendments to the House on three of the clauses, both front benches became
  respectfully attentive whenever he rose to present a case. One morning,
  after the Government's defeat on a clause relating to banking loans, he
  received a note of congratulation from Margaret Thatcher.
 The clause Charles most wanted to see removed from

               246
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the bill concerned a client's right to privacy when dealing with a
 merchant bank. The Shadow Chancellor was aware of Charles's specialized
 knowledge on this subject and invited him to -,peak out on Clause 110 from
 the front bench. Charles realized that if he could defeat the Government
 on this clause he might be invited to join the Shadow Finance team.
  The Whips estimated that Clause 110 on banking privacy would be reached
  sometime on Thursday afternoon. On Thursday morning Charles rehearsed his
  arguments thoroughly with Clive Reynolds, who had only one or two rainor
  amendments to add before Charles set off for the House. When he arrived
  at the Commons there was a note on the message board asking him to phone
  the Shadow Chancellor immediately.
  "The Government is going to accept a Liberal amendment tabled late last
  night," the Shadow Chancellor told him.
 "Why?" said Charles.
  "Minirmim change is what they're really after, but it gets them off the
  hook and at the same time keeps the Liberal vote intact. In essence,
  nothing of substance has changed, but you'll need to study the wording
  carefully. Can I leave you to handle the problem?"
  "Certainly," said Charles, pleased with the responsibility with which
  they were now entrusting him.
  He walked down the long corridor to the vote office and picked up the
  sheet with Clause 110 on it and the proposed Liberal amendment. He read
  them both through half a dozen times before he started to make notes.
  Parliamentary counsel, with their usual expertise, had produced an
  ingenious amendment. Charles ducked into a nearby phone booth and rang
  Clive Reynolds at the bank. Charles dictated the amendment over the phone
  to him and then remained silent for a moment while Reynolds considered
  its implications.
"Clever bunch ot'sharpies. It's a cosmeticjob, but it 247
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 won't change the power it invests in the Government one iota. Were you
 thinking of returning to the bank? That would give me time to work on it."
 "No," said Charles. "Are you free for lunch?"
  Clive Reynolds checked his diary. A Belgian banker would be lunching in
  the boardroom but his cofleagues could handle that. "Yes, I'm free."
  "Good," said Charles. "Why don't you join me at White's around one
  o'clock?"
  -Thank you," said Reynolds. "By then I should have had enough time to
  come up with some credible alternatives."
  Charles spent the rest of the morning rewriting his speech, which he
  hoped would counter the Labour argument and make them reconsider their
  position. If it met with Reynolds's imprimatur, the day could still be
  his. He read through the clause once more, convinced he had found a way
  through the loophole the civil servants couldn't block. He placed his
  speech and the amended clause in his inside pocket, went down to the
  members' entrance and jumped into a waiting taxi.
  As the cab drove up St. James's, Charles thought he saw his wife coming
  down the opposite side of the road. He rolled down the window to be sure,
  but she had disappeared into Prunier's. He wondered with which of her
  girlfriends she was lunching. The cab traveled on up St. James's and came
  to a halt outside White's.
  Charles found he was a few minutes early so he decided to walk down to
  Prunier's and ask Fiona if she would like to come to the House after
  lunch and hear him oppose the finance clause. Reaching the restaurant,
  he glanced through the window. Charles froze on the spot. Fiona was
  chatting at the bar with a man whose back was to Charles, but he thought
  he recognized his profile. Charles noticed that his wife was wearing a
  dress he had never seen before. He didn't move as he watched a waiter
  bow, then guide the pair toward a comer table 248
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 where they were conveniently out of sight. Charles's first instinct was
 to march straight in and confront them, but he held himself in check.
  For what seemed a long time he stood alone, uncertain what to do next.
  Finally he crossed back over to St. James's and stood in the doorway of
  the Economist Building going over several plans. In the end he decided
  to do nothing but wait. He stood there so cold and so incensed that lie
  totally forgot about his lunch appointment with Ctive Reynolds a few
  hundred yards up the road.
  An hour and twenty minutes later the man came out of Prunier's alone an~l
  headed up St. James's. Charles felt a sense of relief until he saw him
  turn into St. James's Place. A few minutes later Fiona stepped out of the
  restaurant and followed in the man's footsteps. Charles crossed the road,
  causing one cab to swerve while another motorist slammed on her brakes.
  He didn't notice. He shadowed his wife, careful to keep a safe distance,
  When she reached the far end of the street he watched Fiona enter the
  Stafford Hotel. Once she was through the revolving doors Fiona stepped
  into an empty elevator.
  Charles came up to the revolving doors and stared at the little numbers
  above the elevator, watching them fight up in succession until they
  stopped at four.
  Charles marched through the revolving doors and up to the reception desk.
 "Can I help you, sir?" the hall porter asked.
  "Er-is the dining room in this hotel on the fourth floor?" asked Charles.
  "No, sir," replied the hall porter, surprised. "The dining room is on the
  ground floor to your left." He indicated the way with a sweep of his
  hand. "There are only bedrooms on the fourth floor."
  "Thank you," said Charles and marched back outside.

               249
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  He returned slowly to the Economist Building, where he waited for nearly
  two hours pacing up and down St. James's Place before the man emerged from
  the Stafford Hotel. Alexander Dalglish hailed a taxi and disappeared in the
  direction of Piccadilly.
  Fiona left the hotel about twenty minutes later and took the path through
  the park before setting off toward Eaton Square. On three occasions Charles
  had to fall back to be certain Fiona didn't spot him; once he was so close
  he thought he saw a smile of satisfaction on her face.
  He had followed his wife most of the way across St. James's Park when he
  suddenly remembered. He checked his watch, then dashed back to the
  roadside, hailed a taxi and shouted, "The House of Commons, as fast as you
  can." The cabby took seven minutes and Charles passed him two pound notes
  before running up the steps into the members' lobby and through to the
  chamber out of breath. He stopped by the sergeant-atarms's chair.
  From the table where he sat during committee of the whole House, the
  chairman of Ways and Means faced a packed House. He read from the division
  list.

     THE AYES TO THE RIGHT, 294 THE NOS TO THE LEFT, 293 THE AYES HAVE IT,
     THE AYES HAVE IT.

  The Government benches cheered and the Conservatives looked distinctly
  glum. "What clause were they debating?" a still out-of-breath Charles asked
  the sergeant-at-arms.
 "Clause One Hundred and Ten, Mr. Hampton."

  Simon was in Manchester as a guest of the business school when he received
  Elizabeth's message to call her.

               250
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 It was most unusual for Elizabeth to phone in the middle of the day and
 Simon assumed the worst. Something must have happened to the children. The
 principal of the business school accompanied Simon to his private office,
 then left him alone.
  Doctor Kerslake was not at the hospital, he was told, which made him even
  more anxious. He dialed the Beaufort Street number.
  Elizabeth picked up the receiver so quickly that she must have been
  sitting by the phone waiting for him to call.
 "I've lost myjob," she said.
 "What?" said Simon, unable to comprehend.
  "I've been made redundant-isn't that the modem term meant to lessen the
  blow? The hospital governors have been instructed by the Department of
  Health and Social Security to make cutbacks, and three of us in gy-
  necology have lost our jobs. I go at the end of the month."
  "Darling, I'm sorry," he said, knowing how inadequate his words must
  sound.
  "I didn't mean to bother you, but I just wanted someone to talk to," she
  said. "Everyone else is allowed to complain to their MP, so I thought it
  was my turn."
  "Normally what I do in these circumstances is to put the blame on the
  Labour Party." Simon was relieved to hear Elizabeth laugh.
  "Thanks for ringing me back so quickly, darling. See you tomorrow," she
  said and put the phone down.
  Simon returned to his group and explained that he had to leave for London
  immediately. He took a taxi to the airport and caught the next shuttle
  to Heathrow. He was back at Beaufort Street within three hours.
  "I didn't want you to come home," Elizabeth said contritely when she saw
  him on the doorstep.
 "I've come back to celebrate," Simon said. "Let's

               251
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 open the bottle of champagne that Ronnie gave us when he closed the deal
 with Morgan Grenfell."
 "Why9"
  "Because Ronnie taught me one thing. You should always celebrate
  disasters, not successes."
  Simon hung up his coat and went off in search of the champagne. When he
  returned with the bottle and two glasses Elizabeth asked, "What's your
  overdraft looking like nowadays?"
  "Down to sixteen thousand pounds, give or take a pound."
  "Well, that's another problem then-I won't be giving any pounds in the
  future, only taking."
  Simon embraced his wife. "Don't he silly. Someone will snap you up."
 "It won't be quite that easy," said Elizabeth.
 "Why not?" asked Simon, trying to sound cheerful.
  "Because I had already been warned about whether I wanted to be a
  politician's wife or a doctor."
  Simon was stunned. "I had no idea," he said. "I'm so sorry."
  "It was my choice, darling, but I will have to make one or two decisions
  if I want to remain in medicine, especially if you're going to become a
  Minister."
  "You mustn't be allowed to give up being a doctor. It's every bit as
  important as wanting to be a Minister. Shall I have a word with Gerry
  Vaughan? As Shadow Minister of Health he might-"
  "Certainly not, Simon. If I am to get another job, it'll be without
  anyone doing you or me a favor."

  Raymond's first trip to the States was at the behest of the Secretary of
  State for Trade. He was asked to present the country's export and import
  assessment to the International Monetary Fund, following up a loan
  granted to Britain the previous November. His civil servants went

               252
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 over the prepared speech with him again and again, emphasizing to their
 Minister the responsibility that had been placed on his shoulders.
  Raymond's speech was scheduled for Wednesday morning. He flew into
  Washington on the Sunday before and spent Monday and Tuesday listening
  to the problems of other nations' trade ministers while trying to get
  used to the dreadful earphones and the female interpreters.
  The night before he was to deliver his speech, Raymond hardly slept. He
  continued to rehearse each crucial phrase and repeated the salient points
  that needed to be emphasized until he almost knew them by heart. At three
  o'clock in the morning he dropped his speech on the floor beside his bed
  and phoned Kate to have a chat before she went to work.
  "I'd enjoy hearing your speech at the conference," she told him.
  "Although I don't suppose it would be much different from the thirty
  times I've listened to it in the bedroom."
  All the homework and preparation proved to be worthwhile. By the time he
  turned the last page Raymond couldn't be certain how convincing his case
  had been, but he knew it was the best speech he had ever delivered. When
  he looked up, the smiles all around the oval table assured him that his
  contribution had been a triumph. As the British ambassador pointed out
  to him when he rose to leave, any signs of emotion at these gatherings
  were almost unknown.
  At the end of the afternoon sessions Raymond walked out into the clear
  Washington air and decided to make his way back to the Embassy on foot.
  He was exhilarated by the experience of dominating an international
  conference. He quickened his pace. Just the closing day to go, followed
  by the official banquet, and he would be back home by the weekend.

               253
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  When he reached the Embassy the guard had to double-check. they weren't
  used to Ministers arriving on foot and without a bodyguard. Raymond was
  allowed to proceed down the tree-lined drive toward the massive Lutyens
  Building. He looked up to see the British flag flying at half-mast and
  wondered which distinguished American had died.
  "Who has died?" he asked the tailcoated butler who opened the door for
  him.
  "One of your countrymen, sir, I'm sorry to say. The Foreign Secretary."
  "Anthony Crosland? But I had lunch with him only last week," said
  Raymond. He hurried into the Embassy to find it abuzz with telexes and
  messages.
  Raymond sat alone in his room for several hours and later, to the horror
  of the security staff, slipped out for a solitary dinner at the Mayflower
  Hotel.
  Raymond returned to the conference table at nine o'clock the next morning
  to hear the closing speeches. He was savoring the thought of the official
  banquet at the White House to be held that evening when he was tapped on
  the shoulder by Sir Peter Ramsbotham, who indicated they must have a word
  in private.
  "The Prime Minister wants you to return on the midmorning Concorde," said
  Sir Peter. "It leaves in an hour. On arrival in Britain you're to go
  straight to Downing Street."
 "What's this all about?"
  "I have no idea. That's the only instruction I've received from Number
  Ten," confided the ambassador.
  Raymond returned to the conference table and made his apologies to the
  chairman, left the room and was driven immediately to the waiting plane.
  "Your bags will follow, sir," he was assured.
  He was back on English soil three hours and forty-one minutes later. The
  purser ensured that he was the first to

               254
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 disembark. A car waiting by the side of the plane whisked him to Downing
 Street. He arrived just as the Prime Minister was going into dinner
 accompanied by an elderly African statesman.
  "Welcome home, Ray," said the Prime Minister, leaving the African leader.
  "I'd ask you to join us, but as you can see I'm tied up here. Let's have
  a word in my study."
  Once Raymond had settled into a chair opposite the Prime Minister, Mr.
  Callaghan wasted no time. "Because of Tony's tragic death, I have had to
  make a few changes which will include moving the Secretary of State for
  Trade. I was hoping you would be willing to take over from him."
  Raymond sat up straighter. "I should be honored, Prime Minister."
  "Good. You've earned the promotion, Raymond. I also hear you did us proud
  in America, very proud."
 "Thank you."
  "You'll be appointed to the Privy Council immediately and your first
  Cabinet meeting will be at ten o'clock tomorrow morning. Now if you'll
  excuse me, I must catch up with Dr. Banda."
 Raymond was left standing in the hall.
  He asked his driver to take him back to the flat. On the journey he
  reflected with satisfaction that he was the first from his intake to be
  made a Cabinet Minister. All he wanted to do was to tell Kate the news.
  When he arrived, the flat was empty; then he remembered she wasn't
  expecting him back until the next day. He phoned her home, but after
  twenty continuous rings he resigned himself to the fact that she was out.
  "Damn," he said out loud and after pacing around phoned Joyce to let her
  know the news. Once again there was no reply.
 He went into the kitchen and checked to see what was

               255
        FIRST AMONG kQUALS

 in the fridge: a piece of curled-up bacon, some halfeaten Brie and
 three eggs. He couldn't help thinking about the banquet he was missing
 at the White House.
  The Right Honorable Raymond Gould, QC, MP, Her Britannic Majesty's
  Principal Secretary of State for Trade, sat on the kitchen stool,
  opened a tin of baked beans and devoured them with a fork.

 256
   -P-ART FOUR

The Labour
Cabinet

 1977-1978
              20

 CHARLES CLOSED THE FILE. It had taken him a month to gather all the proof
 he needed. Albert Cruddick, the private investigator Charles had selected
 from the yellow pages, had been expensive but discreet, Dates, times,
 places were all fully chronicled. The only name was that of Alexander
 Dalglish, the same rendezvous, lunch at Prunier's followed by the Stafford
 Hotel. They hadn't stretched Mr. Cruddick's imagination, but at least the
 private detective had spared Charles the necessity of standing in the
 entrance of the Economist Building once, sometimes twice a week, for hours
 on end.
  Somehow he had managed to get through that month without giving himself
  away. He had also made his own notes of the dates and times Fiona claimed
  she was going to be in the constituency. He had then called his campaign
  manager in Sussex Downs and, after veiled questioning, elicited answers
  that corroborated Mr. Cruddick's findings.
  Charles saw as little of Fiona as possible during this time, explaining
  that the Finance Bill was occupying his every moment. His lie had at
  least a semblance of credi-
  
               259
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 bility for he had worked tirelessly on the remaining clauses left for
 debate, and by the time the watereddown bill had become law he had just
 about recovered from the disaster ofthe Government's successful retention
 of Clause 110.
  Charles placed the file on the table by the side of his chair and waited
  patiently for the call. He knew exactly where she was at that moment and
  just the thought of it made him sick to his stomach. The phone rang.
 "The subject left five minutes ago," said a voice.
  "Thank you," said Charles and replaced the receiver, He knew it would
  take her about twenty minutes to reach home.
  "Why do you think she walks home instead of taking a taxi?" he had once
  asked Mr. Cruddick.
  "Gets rid of any smells," Mr. Cruddick had replied quite
  matter-of-factly.
  Charles shuddered. "And what about him? What does he do?" He never could
  refer to him as Alexander, or even Dalglish-never as anything but "him."
  "He goes to the Lansdowne Club, swims ten lengths or plays a game of
  squash before returning home. Swimming and squash both solve the
  problem," Mr. Cruddick explained cheerily.
  The key turned in the lock. Charles braced himself and picked up the
  file. Fiona came straight into the drawing room and was visibly shaken
  to discover her husband sitting in an armchair with a smaH suitcase by
  his side.
  She recovered quickly, walked over and kissed him on the check. "What
  brings you home so early, darling? The Labourites taken the day off?" She
  laughed nervously at her joke.
  "This," lie said, standing up and holding the file out to her.
  She took off her coat and dropped it over the sofa. Then she opened the
  buff folder and started to read. He

               260
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 watched her carefully. First the color drained from her cheeks, then her
 legs gave way and she collapsed onto the sofa. Finally she started to sob.
 "It's not true, none of it," she protested.
 "You know very well that every detail is accurate."
  "Charles, it's you I love, I don't care about him, you must believe that."
  "You're no longer someone I could live with," said Charles.
  "Live with? I've been living on my own since the day you entered
  Parliament."
  "Perhaps I might have come home more often if you had shown some interest
  in starting a family."
 "And do you imagine I am to blame?" she said.
  Charles ignored the comment and continued. "In a few moments I am going to
  my club, where I shall spend the night. I expect you to be out of this
  house within seven days. When I return I want there to be no sign of you or
  any of your goods or chattels, to quote the ofiginal agreement."
 "Where will I go?" she cried.
  "You could try your lover first, but no doubt his wife might object.
  Failing that, you can camp at your father's
 place."
  "What if I refuse to go?" said Fiona, turning to defiance.
  "Then I shall throw you out, as one should a whore, and cite Alexander
  Dalglish in a very messy divorce case."
  "Give me another chance. I'll never look at him again," begged Fiona,
  starting to cry once more.
  "I seem to remember your telling me that once before, and indeed I did give
  you another chance. The results have been all too plain to see." He pointed
  to the file where it had fallen to the floor.
  Fiona stopped weeping when she realized that Charles remained unmoved.

               261
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I shall not see you again. We shall be separated for at least two years,
  when we will carry through as quiet a divorce as possible in the
  circumstances. If you cause me any embarrassment I shall drag you both
  through the mire. Believe me."
  "You'll regret your decision, Charles. I promise you'll regret it."

  She knew she had to plan the whole operation so that her husband would
  never find out. She sat alone in the house considering the several
  alternative ways in which she could deceive him. After hours of
  unproductive thought the idea finally came in a flash. She went over the
  problems and repercussions again and again until she was convinced that
  nothing could go wrong. She leafed through the Yellow Pages and made an
  appointment for the next morning.
  The saleslady helped her to try on several wigs, but only one was
  bearable.
  "I think it makes madam look most elegant, I must say."
  She knew that it didn't-it made madam look awful-but she hoped it would
  serve its purpose.
  She then applied the eye makeup and lipstick she had acquired at Harrods,
  and pulled out from the back of her closet a floral print dress she had
  never liked. She stood in front of the mirror and checked herself. Surely
  no one would recognize her in Sussex, and she prayed that if he found out
  he would be forgiving.
  She left and drove slowly toward the outskirts of London. How would she
  explain herself if she was caught? Would he remain understanding when he
  discovered the truth? When she reached the constituency she parked the
  car in a side road and walked up and down the High Street. No one showed
  any sign of recognition, which gave her the confidence to go through with
  it. And then she saw him.

               262
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  She had hoped he'd be in the city that morning. She held her breath as he
  walked toward her. As he passed she said, "Good morning." He turned and
  smiled, replying with a casual "Good morning," as he might to any
  constituent. Her heartbeat returned to normal and she went back to find her
  car.
  She drove off completely reassured she could now get away with it. She went
  over once again what she was going to say. Then all too suddenly she had
  arrived. She parked the car outside the house opposite, got out and bravely
  walked up the path.

  As Raymond stood outside the Cabinet room, several of his colleagues came
  over to congratulate him. At exactly ten o'clock the Prime Minister walked
  in, bade everyone good morning and took his place at the center of the
  oblong table, while the other twenty-one members of the Cabinet filed in
  behind him and took their seats. The Leader of the House, Michael Foot, sat
  on his left, while the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Foreign Secre-
  tary were placed opposite him. Raymond was directed to a seat at the end of
  the table between the Secretary of State for Wales and the Minister for the
  Arts.
  "I would like to start the meeting," said the Prime Minister, "by welcoming
  David Owen as Foreign Secretary and Raymond Gould as Secretary of State for
  Trade." The other twenty-one Cabinet members murmured "Hear, hear" in a
  discreetly conservative way. David Owen smiled slightly; Raymond lowered
  his eyes.
  "Perhaps, Chancellor, you would be kind enough to start us off."
  Raymond sat back and decided that today he would only listen.

  When Charles returned home he knew at once Fiona had left. He felt an
  immediate sense of relief. After a week at his club, he was glad the
  charade was over,

               263
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 a clean, irrevocable break. He strolled into the drawing room and stopped:
 something was wrong. It took him a few moments before he realized what she
 had done.
 Fiona had removed every one of the family paintings.
  No Wellington above the fireplace, no Victoria behind the sofa. Where the
  two Turners and the Constable had hung, there were nothing more than thin
  dusty outlines indicating the size of each picture she had removed. He
  walked to the library: the Van Dyck, the Murillo and the two small
  Rembrandts were also missing. Charles ran down the hall. It couldn't be
  possible, he thought, as he threw open the dining-room door. It was. He
  stared at the blank wall where only the previous week the Holbein
  portrait of the first Earl of Bridgewater had hung.
  Charles scrabbled in the back of his pocket diary for the number and
  dialed it frantically. Mr. Cruddick listened to the story in silence.
  "Remembering how sensitive you are about publicity, Mr. Hampton, there
  are two avenues of approach," he began in his normal level tone and
  sounding unperturbed. "You can grin and bear it, or the alternative is
  one I have used often in the past . . ."

  Because of the demands of his new job Raymond saw less of Kate, and
  almost nothing of Joyce apart from his twice monthly visits to Leeds. He
  worked from eight in the morning until he fell asleep at night.
  "And you love every minute of it," Kate reminded him whenever he
  complained. Raymond had also become aware of the subtle changes that had
  taken place in his life since he had become a member of the Cabinet-4he
  way he was treated by other people, how quickly his slightest whim was
  granted, how flattery fell from almost every tongue. He began to enjoy
  the change

               264
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 in status, although Kate reminded him that only the Queen could afford to
 get used to it.
  At the Party conference that year he was nominated for a place on the
  national executive board of the Labour Party. Although he failed to be
  elected, he managed to finish ahead of several other Cabinet Ministers and
  polled only a few votes less than Neil Kinnock, who was fast becoming the
  new darling of the unions.
  Jamie Sinclair and he had what was becoming their traditional lunch
  together on the third day of the Party conference. Jamie told Raymond of
  his distress at the Party's continued drift to the left.
  "If some of those resolutions on defense are passed, my life will be made
  impossible," he said, slicing into an end cut of roast beef.
  "The hotheads always put up resolutions that are never allowed more than a
  token discussion."
  "Token discussion be damned. Some of their mad ideas are beginning to gain
  credence, which, translated, could become Party policy."
  "Any particular resolution worrying you?" asked Raymond.
  "Yes, Tony Benn's latest proposal that members must be reelected before
  every election. His idea of democracy and accountability."
 "Why should you fear that?"
  "If your management committee is taken over by half a dozen Reds they can
  reverse a decision fifty thousand voters have previously agreed on."
 "You're overreacting, Jamie."
  "Raymond, if we lose the next election I can see a split in the Party that
  will be so great we may never recover."
  "They've been saying that in the Labour Party since the day it was
  founded."
 "I hope you're right, but I fear times have changed,"

               265
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

said Jamie. "Not so long ago it was you who envied me." "That can change
 again." Raymond abandoned the beef, waved his hand and asked the waitress
 to bring two large brandies.

  Charles picked up the phone and dialed a number he had not needed to look
  up. The new young Portuguese maid answered.
 "Is Lady Fiona at home?"
 "Lady no home, sir."
  "Do you know where she is?" asked Charles, speaking slowly and clearly.
  "Go down to country, expect back six o'clock. Take message please?"
  "No, thank you," said Charles. "I'll call this evening." He replaced the
  receiver.
  As always, the reliable Mr. Cruddick was proved right about Fiona's
  movements. Charles called him immediately. They agreed to meet as planned
  in twenty minutes.
  He drove into the Boltons, parked on the far side of the road a few yards
  from his father-in-law's house and settled down to wait.
  A few minutes later a large anonymous moving van came around the corner
  and stopped outside number 36. Mr. Cruddick jumped out from the driver's
  seat. He was dressed in long brown overalls and a flat cap. He was joined
  by a young assistant who unlocked the back of the van. Mr. Cruddick
  nodded to Charles before proceeding up the steps to the front door.
  The Portuguese maid answered when he pressed the bell.
  "We have come to collect the goods for Lady Hampton."
 "No understand," said the maid.
 Mr. Cruddick removed from an inside pocket a long

               266
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 typewritten letter on Lady Hampton's personal stationery. The Portuguese
 maid was unable to read the words of a letter her mistress had addressed to
 Hurlingham Croquet Club agreeing to be their Ladies' President, but she
 immediately recognized the letterhead and the signature, Fiona Hampton. She
 nodded and opened the door wider. All Mr. Cruddick's carefully laid plans
 were failing into place.
  Mr. Cruddick tipped his hat, the sign for Mr. Hampton to join them. Charles
  got out of the car cautiously, checking both ways before he crossed the
  road. He felt uncomfortable in brown overalls, and he hated the cap Mr.
  Cruddick had supplied for him. It was a little small and Charles was
  acutely conscious how strange he must look, but the Portuguese maid
  apparently didn't notice the incongruity between his aristocratic mien and
  his workingman's overalls. It did not take long to discover the whereabouts
  of the paintings, Many were stacked up in the hall, and only one or two had
  already been hung.
  Forty minutes later the three men had located and loaded in the van all but
  one of them. The Holbein portrait of the first Earl of Bridgewater was
  nowhere to be found.
  "We ought to be on our way," suggested Mr. Cruddick a little nervously, but
  Charles refused to give up the search. For another thirty-five minutes Mr.
  Cruddick sat tapping the wheel of the van before Charles finally conceded
  that the painting must have been taken elsewhere. Mr. Cruddick tipped his
  hat to the maid while his partner locked up the back of the van.
 "A valuable picture, Mr. Hampton?" he inquired.
  "A family heirloom that would fetch two million at auction," said Charles
  matter-of-factly before returning to his car.
 "Silly question, Albert Cruddick," said Mr. Cruddick

               267
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 to himselfas he pulled out from the curb and drove toward Eaton Square. When
 they arrived, the locksmith had replaced all three locks on the front door
 and was waiting on the top step impatiently.
  "Strictly cash, guv'nor. No receipt. Makes it possible for the missus and
  me to go to Ibiza each year, tax free."
  By the time Fiona had returned to the Boltons from her trip to Sussex,
  every picture was back in its place at Eaton Square with the exception of
  Holbein's first Earl of Bridgewater. Mr. Cruddick had left clutching a
  large check and uttering the mollifying view that Mr. Hampton would
  probably have to grin and bear it.

  "I'm delighted," said Simon, when he heard the news. "And at Pucklebridge
  General Hospital?"
  "Yes, I answered an advertisement in the medical journal for the post of
  general consultant in the maternity section."
 "Our name must have helped there."
 "Certainly not," said Elizabeth vehemently.
 "How come?"
  "I didn't apply as Dr. Kerslake. I filled out the application form in my
  maiden name of Drummond."
  Simon was momentarily silenced. "But they would have recognized you," he
  protested.
  "I had the full frontal treatment from Est6e Lauder to insure they didn't.
  The final effect fooled even you."
 "Don't exaggerate," said Simon.
  "I walked straight past you in Pucklebridge High Street, and said 'Good
  morning,' and you returned the greeting."
  Simon stared at her in disbelief. "But what will happen when they find
  out?"
  "They already have," replied Elizabeth sheepishly. "As soon as they offered
  me the post I went down to see

               268
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the senior consultant and told him the truth. He hasn't stopped telling
 everyone since."
 "He wasn't cross?"
  "Far from it. In fact, he said I nearly failed to be offered the post
  because he felt I wouldn't be safe let loose on the unmarried doctors."
 "What about this married politician?"

 269
              21

 WHEN QUEEN ELIZABETH ii opened the new underground extension to Heathrow
 Airport on December 16, 1977, Raymond was the Minister commanded to be
 present. Joyce made one of her rare trips down to London, as they were
 invited to join the Queen for lunch after the ceremony.
  When Joyce selected her new dress from Marks and Spencer, she stood in
  the little cubicle behind a drawn curtain to make sure it was possible
  for her to curtsey properly. "Good morning, Your Majesty," she practiced
  with a slight wobble, to the bernusement of the shop assistant waiting
  patiently outside.
  By the time she had returned to the flat, Joyce was confident that she
  could carry out her part in the proceedings as well as any courtier. As
  she prepared for Raymond's return from the morning Cabinet meeting, she
  hoped he would be pleased with her efforts. She had given up any hope of
  being a mother, but she still wanted him to believe she was a good wife.
  Raymond had forewarned her that he would have to change as soon as he
  arrived at the flat to be sure of being at Green Park before the Queen
  arrived. After

               270
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 they had accompanied an entourage to Heathrow on the new extension, ajourney
 that would take thirty minutes, they were to return to Buckingham Palace for
 lunch. Raymond had already come in contact with his monarch on several
 occasions in his official capacity as a Cabinet Minister, but for Joyce it
 was to be the first time she had been presented.
  Once she had had her bath and dressed-she knew Raymond would never forgive
  her if she made him late-she began to lay out his clothes. Tailcoat, gray
  pinstriped trousers, white shirt, stiff collar and a silvergray tie, all
  hired that morning from Moss Brothers. All that he still needed was a clean
  white handkerchief for his top pocket, just showing in a straight line,
  like the Duke of Edinburgh always wore his.
  Joyce rummaged around in Raymond's chest of drawers, admiring his new
  shirts as she searched for a handkerchief. When she first saw the scribbled
  note peeking out of the breast pocket of a pink shirt lying near the bottom
  of the pile, she assumed it must be an old cleaning bill. Then she spotted
  the word "Darling." She felt suddenly sick as she looked more closely.

 Darling Red,
  If you ever wear this one I might even agree to
 marry you.
                            KA TE

  Joyce sank on the end of the bed as the tears trickled down her face. Her
  perfect day was shattered. She knew at once what course of action she must
  take. She replaced the sbirt and closed the drawer, after first removing
  the note, and then sat alone in the drawing room waiting for Raymond to
  return.
  He arrived back at the flat with only a few minutes to spare and was
  delighted to find his wife changed and ready.

               271
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I'm running it a bit close," he said, going straight into the bedroom.
  Joyce followed and watched him don his morningdress suit. When he had
  straightened his tie in the mirror, she faced him.
  "What do you think?" he asked, not noticing the slight paleness in her
  cheeks.
  She hesitated. "You look fantastic, Raymond. Now come along or we'll be
  late, and that would never do."

  In 1978, the House passed a resolution allowing the proceedings in the
  Commons to be broadcast on the radio.
  Simon had supported the motion on broadcasting, putting forward the
  argument that radio was a further extension of democracy, as it showed
  the House at work and allowed the voters to know exactly what their
  elected representatives were up to. Simon listened carefully to a number
  of his supplementary questions and realized for the first time that he
  had spoke a little too quickly when he had a Minister on the run.
  Raymond, on the other hand, did not support the motion, as he suspected
  that the cries of "Hear, hear," and the heckling of the Prime Minister
  would sound to listeners like schoolchildren in a playground squabble.
  Overhearing the words with only one's imagination to set the scene would,
  he believed, create a false impression about the many aspects of a
  member's daily duties. When one evening Raymond heard a parliamentary de-
  bate in which he had taken part, he was delighted to discover that the
  force of his arguments carried so much conviction.
  Charles found the morning program an excellent way of catching up with
  any proceedings he missed the previous day. As he now woke each morning
  alone, "Yesterday in Parliament" became his constant companion. He

               272
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 hadn't been aware how upper class he sounded until the time he followed Tom
 Carson. He had no intention of changing for the radio.

  When Ronnie Nethercote invited him to lunch at the Ritz, Simon knew things
  must be looking up again. After a drink in the lounge, they were ushered to
  a corner table overlooking the park in the most palatial dining room in
  London. Scattered around the other tables were men who were household names
  in Ronnie's world as well as in Simon's.
  When the head waiter offered them menus Ronnie waved his hand and said,
  "Order the country vegetable soup, followed by beefoff the trolley, take my
  word for it."
 "Sounds like a safe bet," said Simon.
  "Unlike our last little venture." Ronnie grunted. "How much are you still
  in hock because of the collapse of Nethercote and Company?"
  "Fourteen thousand three hundred pounds when I last looked, but I'm making
  inroads slowly. It's paying the interest before you can cut down on the
  capital that really hurts."
  "How do you imagine I felt when we were overdrawn seven mill, and then the
  bank decided to pull the rug from under my feet without any warning?"
  "As two of the buttons on your waistcoat can no longer reach the holes they
  were originally tailored for, Ronnie, I must assume those problems are now
  a thing of the past."
  "You're right." He laughed. "Which is why I invited you to lunch. The only
  person who ended up losing money on that deal was you. If you'd stayed on
  as the other directors did, with your whack of five grand a year the
  company would still owe you eleven thousand pounds of earned income."

               273
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Simon groaned.
  The carver wheeled the trolley of beef up to their table.
  "Wait a moment, my boy, I haven't even begun. Morgan Grenfell wants me
  to change the structure of the new company and will be injecting a large
  amount of cash. At the moment Whitechapel Properties-I hope you approve
  of the name-is still a one-hundred-pound off-the-shelf company. I own
  sixty percent and the bank's got forty. Now before the new agreement is
  signed, I'm going to offer you-"
  "Would you like it well done, as usual, Mr. Nethercote?"
  "Yes, Sam," said Ronnie, slipping the carver a pound note.
 "I am going to offer you----"
  "And your guest, sir?" the carver said, glancing at Simon.
 "Medium, please."
 "Yes, sir."
  "I am going to offer you one percent of the new company, in other words
  one share."
  Simon didn't comment, feeling confident Ronnie still hadn't finished.
 "Aren't you going to ask?" said Ronnie.
 "Ask what?" said Simon.
  "You politicians get dumber by the minute. If I am going to offer you a
  share, how much do you think I am going to demand in return?"
  "Well, I can't believe it's going to be one pound," said Simon grinning.
  "Wrong," said Ronnie. "One percent of the company is yours for one
  pound."
  "Will that be sufficient, sir?" said the carver, putting a plate of beef
  in front of Simon.
 "Hold it, Sam," said Ronnie before Simon could

               274
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 reply. "I repeat I'm offering you one percent of the company for one pound;
 now ask your question again, Sam."
 "Will that be sufficient, sir?" repeated the carver.
 "It's most generous," said Simon.
 "Did you hear that, Sam?"
 "I certainly did, sir."
 "Right, Simon, you owe me a pound."
  Simon laughed, removed his wallet from his inside pocket, took out a pound
  note and handed it over.
  "Now the purpose of that little exercise," said Ronnie, turning back to the
  carver and pocketing the note, "was to prove that Sam here isn't the only
  person who could make a quid for himself this afternoon." Sam smiled,
  having no idea what Mr. Nethercote was talking about, and placed a large
  plate of well-done beef in front of him.
  Ronnie took out an envelope from his inside pocket and passed it to Simon.
 "Do I open it now?" asked Simon.
 "Yes-I want to see your reaction."
  Simon opened the envelope and studied its contents: a certificate for one
  share in the new company with a true value of over ten thousand pounds.
 "Well, well, what do you say?" asked Ronnie.
 "I'm speechless," said Simon.
  "First politician I've known who's ever suffered from that problem."
  Simon laughed. "Thank you, Ronnie. It's an incredibly generous gesture."
  "No it's not. You were loyal to the old company-so why shouldn't you
  prosper with the new one?"
  "That reminds me, does the name Archie Millburn mean anything to you?"
  Simon asked suddenly.
 Ronnie hesitated. "No, no, should it?"
 "Only that I thought he might be the man who con-
               275
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 vinced Morgan Grenfell that you were worth bailing out."
  "No, that name doesn't ring any bells with me. Mind you, Morgan Grenfell
  has never admitted where they obtained their information from, but they
  knew every last detail about the old company. But if I come across the
  name Millburn I'll let you know. Enough of business. Fill me in on what's
  happening in your world. How's your lady wife?"
 "Deceiving me."
 "Deceiving you?"
  "Yes, stie's been putting on wigs and dressing up in strange clothes."

  Finally, Charles knew he had to discuss with his lawyer, Sir David
  Napley, what could be done about the stolen Holbein. Six weeks and eight
  hundred pounds later, he was told that if he sued, the Holbein might
  eventually be returned, but not before the episode had been on the front
  page of every newspaper. Charles had Albert Cruddick's opinion confirmed:
  "Grin and bear it."
  Fiona had been out of touch for well over a year when the letter came.
  Charles immediately recognized her hand and ripped open the envelope.
  Only one glance at her handwriting was enough to make him tear up the
  missive and deposit the little pieces in the wastepaper basket by his
  desk. He left for the Commons in a rage.
  All through the day he thought of the one word he had taken in from the
  scrawled words: Holbein. When Charles returned from the Commons after the
  ten o'clock division, he searched for the remains of the letter, which
  the cleaning woman had conscientiously deposited in the dustbin. After
  rummaging among potato peelings, eggshells, and empty cans Charles spent
  over an hour taping the little pieces of paper together. Then he read the
  letter carefully.

               276
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 36 The Boltons London SW10 October 11, 1978 Dear Charles,
   Enough time has nowpassedfor us to try and treat each other in a
   civilized way. Alexander and I wish to marry and Veronica Dalglish has
   agreed to an immediate divorce and has not insisted we wait two years
   to establish legal separation.

  "You'll have to wait every day of statutory two years, you bitch," he
  said out loud. Then he came to the one sentence for which he was
  searching.

   I realize this might not immediately appeal to you, but !fyoufeel able
   tofall in with our plans I would be happy to return the Holbein
   immediately.

Yours ever, FIONA

  He crumpled up the paper in the ball of his hand before dropping it on
  the fire.
  Charles remained awake into the early hours considering his reply.

  The Labour Government struggled on toward the Christmas of 1978 through
  a session dubbed by the press as "The Winter of Discontent." Trying to
  get bills through the House, losing a clause here and a clause there, it
  was only too delighted to reach the recess in one piece.
  Raymond spent a cold Christmas in Leeds with Joyce. He returned to London
  early in the new year sadly aware it could not be long before the
  Conservatives felt

               277
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 assured enough to call for a vote of no confidence in the Labour
 Grovernment.
  The debate, when it came, caused a day of intense excitement, not least
  because a strike had caused the Commons bars to run dry, and thirsty
  members were huddled together in the lobbies, the tearoom, the smoking
  room and the dining rooms. Harassed whips rushed hither and thither
  checking lists, ringing up hospitals, boardrooms and even great-aunts in
  their efforts to track down the last few elusive members.
  When Mrs. Thatcher rose on April seventh to address a packed House the
  tension was so electric that the Speaker had considerable difficulty
  keeping control. She addressed the House in firm, strident tones which
  brought her own side to their feet when she resumed her place. The
  atmosphere was no different when it was the turn of the Prime Minister
  to reply. Both Leaders made a gallant effort to rise above the petulance
  of their adversaries but it was the Speaker who had the last word:

     THE AYES rO THE MGM,, 311
     THE NOSTO THE LEFT, 310
     THE AYES HAVE IT, THE AYES HAVE IT,

  Pandemonium broke out. Opposition members waved their agenda papers in
  triumph, knowing that James Callaghan would now have to call a General
  Election. He immediately announced the dissolution of Parliament, and
  after an audience with the Queen, Election Day was set for May 3, 1979.
  At the end of that momentous week, those few members left at Westminster
  were stunned by an explosion in the members' parking lot. Airey Neave,
  the Shadow spokesman on Northern Ireland, had been blown up by Irish
  terrorists as he was driving up the exit ramp to leave the Commons. He
  died on the way to the hospital. 278
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Members hurried back to their constituencies. Raymond found it hard to
  escape from his department at such short notice, but Charles and Simon were
  out in their respective High Streets shaking hands with the voters by the
  morning following the Queen's proclamation.
  For three weeks the arguments about who was competent to govern went back
  and forth, but on May 3 the British people elected their first woman Prime
  Minister and gave her party a comfortable majority of forty-three in the
  Commons.

  Raymond's vote in Leeds was slightly reduced, while Joyce won the office
  pool for predicting most accurately what her husband's majority would be.
  He was beginning to reali7e that she knew more about the constituency than
  he ever would.
  A few days later, when Raymond returned to London, Kate had never seen him
  so depressed, and decided to hold off telling him her own news once he
  said, "God knows how many years it will be before I can be of some use
  again."
  "You can spend your time in Opposition making sure the Government doesn't
  dismantle all your achievements."
  "With a majority of forty-three they could dismantle me if they wanted to,"
  he told her. He placed the red leather box marked "Secretary of State for
  Trade" in the comer, next to the ones marked "Minister of State at the
  Department of Trade" and "Parliamentary Under Secretary at the Department
  of Employment."
  "They're only your first three," Kate tried to reassure him.

  Simon increased his majority at Pucklebridge to 19,461, notching up another
  record, after which he and

               279
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Elizabeth spent the weekend in their cottage with the children, waiting
 for Mrs. Thatcher to select her team.
  Simon was surprised when the Prime Minister phoned personally and asked
  if he could come up to see her in Downing Street: that was an honor
  usually afforded only to Cabinet Ministers. He tried not to anticipate
  what she might have in mind.
  He duly traveled up from the country and spent thirty minutes alone with
  the new Prime Minister. When he heard what Mrs. Thatcher wanted him to
  do, he was impressed that she had taken the trouble to see him in person.
  She knew that no member ever found it easy to accede to such a request
  but Simon accepted without hesitation. Mrs. Thatcher added that no
  announcement would be made until he had had time to talk his decision
  over with Elizabeth. Simon was touched by her personal consideration.
  Simon thanked her and traveled back to his cottage in Pucklebridge.
  Elizabeth sat in silence as she listened to Simon's account of his
  conversation with the Prime Minister.
  "Oh, my God," she said, when he had finished. "She offered you the chance
  to be Minister of State, but in return we'll have no certainty of peace
  for the rest of our lives."
 "I can still say no," Simon assured her.
  "That would be the act of a coward," said Elizabeth, "and you've never
  been that."
  "Then I'll phone the Prime Minister and tell her I accept."
  "I ought to congratulate you," she said. "But it never crossed my mind
  for one moment...."

  Charles's was one of the few Tory seats in which the majority went down.
  A missing wife is hard to explain, especially when it is common knowledge
  that she is liv-
  
               280
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ing with the former chairman of the adjoining constituency.
  Charles had faced a certain degree of embarrassment with his local
  committee and he made sure that the one woman who couldn't keep her mouth
  shut was told his version of the story "in strictest confidence." Any
  talk of removing him had died when it was rumored that Charles would
  stand as an independent candidate if replaced.
  When the vote was counted, Sussex Downs still returned Charles to
  Westminster with a majority of 20,176. He sat alone itt Eaton Square over
  the weekend, but no one contacted him. He read in the Monday Telegraph
  the full composition of the new Tory team.
  The only surprise was Simon Kerslake's appointment as Minister of State
  for Northern Ireland.

 281
 22

 "WELL, SAY SOMETHING."
  "Very flattering, Kate. What reason did you give for turning the offer
  down?" asked Raymond, who had been surprised to find her waiting for him at
  the flat.
 "I didn't need a reason."
 "How did they feel about that?"
  "You don't seem to understand. I accepted their offer."
  Raymond removed his glasses and tried to take in what Kate was saying. He
  steadied himself by holding on to the mantelpiece.
 Kate continued. "I had to, darting."
 "Because the offer was too tempting?"
  "No, you silly man. It had nothing to do with the offer as such, but it
  gives me the chance to stop letting my life drift. Can't you see it was
  because of you?"
  "Because of me you're going to leave London and go back to New York?"
  "To work in New York and start getting my life in perspective. Raymond,
  don't you realize it's been five years?"

               282
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I know how long it is and how many times I've asked you to many me."
  "We both know that isn't the answer; Joyce can't be brushed aside that
  easily. And it might even end up being the single reason you fail in your
  career."
  "Given time, we can overcome that problem," Raymond reasoned.
  "That sounds fine now, until the Party wins the next election and lesser
  men than you are offered the chance to shape future policy."
  "Can't I do anything to make you change your mind?"
  "Nothing, my darling. I've handed Chase my resignation and begin my new
  job with Chemical Bank in a month."
 "Only four weeks," said Raymond.
  "Yes, four weeks. I had to hold off telling you until I had severed all
  the bonds, had resigned and could be sure of not letting you talk me out
  of it."
 "Do you know how much I love you?"
 "I hope enough to let me go before it's too late."

  Charles would not normally have accepted the invitation. Lately he had
  found cocktail parties to consist of nothing but silly little bits of
  food, never being able to get the right drink and rarely enjoying the
  trivial conversation. But when he glanced on his mantelpiece and saw an
  invitation from Lord Carrington, the Foreign Secretary, he felt it might
  be an amusing break from the routine he had fallen into since Fiona had
  left. He was also keen to discover more about the rumored squabbles in
  the Cabinet over expenditure cuts. Charles checked his tie in the mirror,
  removed an umbrella from the hat stand and left Eaton Square for Ovington
  Square.
  He and Fiona had been apart for nearly two years. Charles had heard from
  several sources that his wife had now moved in with Dalglish on a
  permanent basis de-
  
               283
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 spite his unwillingness to co-operate in a divorce. He had remained
 discreetly silent on his wife's new life except for one or two tidbits he
 dropped selectively in the ears of well-chosen gossips. That way he had
 elicited for himself sympathy from every quarter while remaining the
 magnanimous loyal husband.
  Charles had spent almost all of his spare time in the Commons, and his
  most recent budget speech had been well received by both the House and
  the national press. During the committee stage of the Finance Bill he had
  allowed himself to be burdened with a lot of the donkey work. Clive
  Reynolds had been able to point out discrepancies in some clauses of the
  bill, which Charles passed on to a grateful Chancellor. Then Charles re-
  ceived praise for saving the Government from any unnecessary
  embarrassment. At the same time, he disassociated himself from the "wets"
  as the Prime Minister referred to those of her colleagues who did not
  unreservedly support her monetarist policies. If he could keep up his
  work output, he was confident he would be preferred in the first
  reshuffle.
  By spending his mornings at the bank and his afternoons and evenings in
  the Commons, Charles managed to combine both worlds with minimum
  interruption from his almost nonexistent private life.
  He arrived at Lord Carrington's front door a little after six forty-five.
  A maid answered his knock, and he walked straight through to a drawing
  room that could have held fifty guests and very nearly did.
  He even managed to be served with the right blend of whiskey before
  joining his colleagues from both the Upper and Lower Houses. He saw her
  first over the top of Alec Pimkin's balding head.
  "Who is she?" asked Charles, not expecting Pimkin to know.
"Amanda Wallace," said Pimkin, glancing over his
 shoulder. "I could tell you a thing or twoBut
 284
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Charles had already left his colleague in mid-sentence. The sexuality of
 the woman was attested to by the fact that she spent the entire evening
 surrounded by attentive men like moths around a candle. If Charles had not
 been one of the tallest men in the room he might never have seen the
 flame.
  It took him another ten minutes to reach her side of the room, where
  Julian Ridsdale, a colleague of Charles's in the Commons, introduced
  them, only to be dragged away moments later by his wife.
  Charles was left staring at a woman who would have looked beautiful in
  anything from a ballgown to a towel. Her slim body was encased in a white
  silk dress, and her fair hair touched her bare shoulders. It had been
  years since he had found it so hard to make conversation.
  "I expect you already have a dinner engagement?" Charles asked her in the
  brief interval before the vultures closed in again.
  "No," she replied and smiled encouragingly. She agreed to meet him at
  Walton's in an hour's time. Charles dutifully began to circulate around
  the room, but it was not long before he found his eyes drawn back to her.
  Every time she smiled, he found himself responding, but Amanda didn't
  notice because she was always being flattered by someone else. When he
  left, an hour later, he smiled directly at her, and this time he did win
  a knowing grin-
  Charles sat alone at a comer table in Walton's for another hour. He was
  just about to admit defeat and return home when she was ushered to the
  table. The anger that had developed from being kept waiting was forgotten
  the moment she smiled and said, "Hello, Charlie."
  He was not surprised to learn that his tall, elegant companion earned her
  living as a model. As far as Charles could see, she could have modeled
  anything from toothpaste to stockings. So enchanting were her fair curls
  and large blue eyes that he hardly noticed that

               285
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 her conversation rarely strayed beyond the world's gossip columns.
  "Shall we have coffee at my place?" Charles asked after an unhurried
  dinner. She nodded her assent and he called for the bill, not checking the
  addition as he normally did.
  He was delighted, if somewhat surprised, when she rested her head on his
  shoulder in the cab on the way back to Eaton Square. By the time they had
  been dropped off at Eaton Square, most of Amanda's lipstick had been
  removed. The cabbie thanked Charles for his excessive tip and couldn't
  resist adding, "Good luck, sir. ~1
 Charles never did get around to making the coffee.
  When he woke in the morning, to his surprise he found her even more
  captivating, and for the first time in weeks he quite forgot to turn on
  "Yesterday in Parhament."

  Elizabeth listened carefully as the man from Special Branch explained how
  the safety devices worked. She tried to make Peter and Lucy concentrate on
  not pressing the red buttons that were in every room and would bring the
  police at a moment's notice. The electrician had already wired every room
  in Beaufort Street and now he had nearly finished at the cottage.
  At Beaufort Street a uniformed policeman stood watch by the front door
  night and day. In Pucklebridge, because the-cottage was so isolated, they
  had to be surrounded by arc lamps that could be switched on at a moment's
  notice.
  "It must be damned inconvenient," suggested Archie Millburn during dinner.
  Upon his arrival at the cottage he had been checked by security patrols
  with dogs before he was able to shake hands with his host.
 "Inconvenient is putting it mildly," said Elizabeth.

               286
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "Last week Peter broke a window with a cricket ball and we were
 immediately lit up like a Christmas tree."
 "Do you get any privacy?" asked Archie.
  "Only when we're in bed. Even then you can wake up to find you're being
  licked; you sigh and it turns out to be an Alsatian."
 Archie laughed. "Lucky Alsatian."
  Each morning when Simon was driven to work, he was accompanied by two
  detectives, a car in front and another to the rear. He had always thought
  there were only two ways from Beaufort Street to Westminster. For the
  first twenty-one days as Minister, he never traveled the same route
  twice.
  Whenever he was due to fly to Belfast, he was not informed of either his
  departure time or from which airport he would be leaving. While the
  inconvenience drove Elizabeth mad, the tension had the opposite effect
  on Simon. Despite everything, it was the first time in his life he didn't
  feel it was necessary to explain why he'd chosen to be a politician to
  anyone but Lucy.
  "Why can't the North and South be friends?" she had asked her father.
  "Because," replied Simon, "most of the people in the South are Catholics,
  while in the North they are nearly all Protestants."
  "And that stops them from liking each other?" said Lucy in disbelief.
  "Yes, because the Protestants in the North fear that if they separated
  from Britain, as the Catholics are demanding, and became part of a United
  Ireland, they would lose all their rights. And then the Catholics would
  be in control."
  "I thought you told me that Christians believed all men were equal in the
  eyes of God."
 Simon had no reply.
 Inch by inch he worked to try to bring the Catholics

               287
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 and Protestants together. Often after a month of inches he would lose a
 yard in one day, but he never displayed any anger or prejudice except
 perhaps, as he told Elizabeth, "a prejudice for common sense." Given time,
 Simon believed, a breakthrough would be possible-if only he could find on
 both sides a handful of men of good will.
  During the all-party meetings in Northern Ireland, both factions began
  to treat him with respect and-privately-with affection. Even the
  Opposition spokesman at Westminster openly acknowledged that Simon Kers-
  lake was turning out to be an excellent choice for the "dangerous and
  thankless Ministry."

  "This is the third time in five years," said the doctor, trying not to
  sound disapproving.
  "I may its well book into the same clinic as before," said Amanda
  matter-of-factly.
  "Yes, I suppose so," said the doctor. "Is there any chance the father
  would want you to have this child?"
  "I can't be certain who the father is," said Amanda, looking shamefaced
  for the first time.
  The doctor made no comment other than to say, "I estimate that you are
  at least six weeks pregnant, but it could be as much as ten."
  "The end of one affair and the beginning of another," said Amanda under
  her breath.
  The doctor looked down at the confidential file. "Have you considered
  giving birth to the child and then bringing it up yourself? "
  "Good heavens, no," said Amanda. "I make my living as a model, not as a
  mother."
  "So be it," sighed the doctor, closing the file. "I'll make all the -_-
  she avoided saying "usual"-"necessary arrangements. Perhaps you could
  give me a call in about a week rather than make the trip down again."
Amanda nodded and said, "Could you let me know 288
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 what the chnic is going to charge this time? I'm sure it's suffering from
 inflation like the rest of us."
  Somehow the doctor managed to check her temper as she showed Amanda to
  the door. Once Amanda had left, the doctor picked up the confidential
  file from her desk, walked over to the cabinet and flicked through S, T,
  U, until she found the right slot for Wallace. She paused and wondered
  if having the child might change the patient's whole cavalier attitude
  to life.
  Peter and Lucy had certainly changed her whole life far more than she had
  ever anticipated.

  Raymond drove Kate to Heathrow. He was wearing the pink shirt she had
  chosen for him; she was wearing the little red box. He had so much to
  tell her on the way to the airport that he hardly spoke at all. The last
  four weeks had gone by in a flash. It was the first time he had been
  grateful for being in Opposition.
  "It's all right, Red. Don't fuss. We'll see each other whenever you come
  to New York."
  "I've only been to America once in my life," he said. She tried to smile.
  Once she had checked her eleven bags in at the counter, a process that
  seemed to take forever, she was allocated a seat.
  "Flight BA one hundred seven, Gate fourteen, boarding in ten minutes,"
  she was informed.
  "Thank you," she said and rejoined Raymond, who was sitting on the end
  of an already crowded tubular settee. He had bought two cups of coffee
  while Kate had been checking in. They were both already cold. They sat
  and held hands like children who had met on a summer holiday and now had
  to return to separate schools.
  "Promise me you won't start wearing contact lenses the moment I've gone."
  "Yes, I can promise you that," said Raymond, touching the bridge of his
  glasses.

               289
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "I've so much I still want to tell you," she said.
  He turned toward her. "Vice-presidents of banks shouldn't cry," he said,
  brushing a tear from her cheek. "The customers will realize you're a soft
  touch."
  "Neither should future Prime Ministers," she replied. "AN I wanted to say
  is that if you really feel . . ." she began.
 "Hello, Mr. Gould."
  They both looked up to see a broad smile spread across the face of
  someone whose tan proved that he had just arrived from a sunnier climate.
  "I'm Bert Cox," he said, thrusting out his hand, "I don't suppose you
  remember me." Raymond let go of Kate's hand and shook Mr. Cox's.
  "We were at the same primary school in Leeds, Ray. Mind you, that was a
  million light years ago. You've come a long way since then."
  How can I get rid of him? wondered Raymond desperately.
  "This is the missus," Bert Cox continued obliviously, gesturing at the
  silent woman in a flowery dress by his side. She smiled but didn't speak.
  "She sits on some committee with Joyce, don't you, love?" he said, not
  waiting for her reply.
  "This is the final call for Flight BA one hundred seven, now boarding at
  Gate fourteen."
  "We always vote for you, of course," continued Bert Cox. "The rnissus--"
  he pointed to the lady in the flowered dress again--thinks you'll be
  Prime Minister. I always say---"
  "I must go, Mr. Gould," said Kate, "or I'll miss my flight."
  "Can you excuse rne for a moment, Mr. Cox?" said Raymond.
  "Delighted. I'll wait, I don't often get a chance to have a word with my
  MP."

               290
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Raymond walked with Kate toward the gate. "I am sorry about this, I'm
  afraid they're all like that in Leeds--hear-ts of gold, but never stop
  talking. What were you going to say?"
  "Only that I would have been happy to live in Leeds, however cold it is.
  I never envied anyone in my life, but I do envy Joyce." She kissed him
  gently on the cheek and walked toward the security barrier before he
  could reply. She didn't look back.
  "Are you feeling all right, madam?" asked an airport official as she went
  through the gate.
  "I'm fine," said Kate, brushing aside her tears. She walked slowly toward
  Gate 14, happy that he had worn the pink shirt for the first time. She
  wondered if he had found the note she had left in the breast pocket. If
  he had asked herjust one more time ...
  Raymond stood alone and then turned to walk aimlessly toward the exit.
  "An American lady, I would have guessed," said Mr. Cox rejoining him.
  "I'm good on accents."
 "Yes," said Raymond, still alone.
 "A friend of yours?" he asked.
 "My best friend," said Raymond.

  Charles returned home after the debate feeling pleased with himself. He
  had received praise for his latest speech from every wing of the party,
  and the Chief Whip had made it quite clear that Charles's efforts on the
  Finance Bill had not gone unnoticed.
  As he drove back to Eaton Square he wound down the car window and let the
  fresh air rush in and the cigarette smoke out. His smile widened at the
  thought of Amanda sitting at home waiting for him. It had been a glorious
  couple of months. At forty-eight, he was experiencing realities he had
  never dreamed of in fantasy. As each day passed, he expected the
  infatuation to wear off, but

               291
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 instead it only grew more intense. Even the memory the day after was better
 than anything he had experienced in the past.
  Once the Holbein had been restored to his dining room wall, he would be
  willing to grant Fiona her divorce. Charles then planned to talk to Amanda
  about their future. He parked the car and took out his latchkey, but she
  was already there opening the front door to throw her arms around him.
  "Let's go straight to bed," she said. "I feel in the mood."
  Charles would have been shocked had Fiona uttered such feelings even once
  in all their years of married life, but Amanda made it appear quite
  natural. She was already lying naked on the bed before Charles could get
  his vest off. After they had made love and she was settled in his arms,
  Amanda told him she would have to go away for a few days.
 "Why?" said Charles, puzzled.
  "I'm pregnant," she said matter-offactly. "I can always go to a clinic.
  Don't worry, I'll be as right as rain in no time."
  "But why don't we have the baby?" said a delighted Charles, looking down
  into her blue eyes. "I've always wanted a son."
  "Don't be silly, Charlie. There's years ahead of me for that."
 "But if we were married?"
  "You're already married. Besides, I'm only twentysix."
  "I can get a divorce in a moment and life wouldn't be so bad with me, would
  it?"
  "Of course not, Charlie. You're the first man I've ever really cared for."
  Charles smiled hopefully. "So you'll think about the idea?"

               292
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Amanda looked into Charlie's eyes anxiously. "If I had a child I would
  hope he had blue eyes like yours."
 "Will you marry me?" he asked.
  -IT think about it. In any case, you may have changed your mind by
  morning."

  When ten days had passed and Elizabeth had not yet heard from Miss
  Wallace, she decided the time had come to phone her. Elizabeth flicked
  through her patients file and noted the latest number Amanda Wallace had
  given.
  Elizabeth dialed the number. It was some time before it was answered.
  "9712. Charles Hampton speaking." There was a long silence. "Is anyone
  there?"
  Elizabeth couldn't reply. She replaced the phone and felt her whole body
  come out in a cold sweat. She closed Amanda Wallace's file, and returned
  it to the cabinet.

 293
              23

 SIMON HAI) SPENT nearly a year preparing a White Paper entitled "A Genuine
 Partnership for Ireland," for consideration by the House. The Government's
 aim was to bring North and South together for a period of ten years, at
 the end of which a more permanent arrangement could be considered. During
 the ten years both sides would remain under the direct rule of Westminster
 and Dublin. Both Protestants and Catholics had contributed to "the
 Charter," as the press had dubbed the complex agreement. With considerable
 skill and patience Simon had convinced the political leaders of Northern
 Ireland to append their names to the final draft when and if it was
 approved by the House.
  He admitted to Elizabeth that the agreement was only a piece of paper,
  but he felt it was a foundation stone on which the House could base an
  eventual settlement. On both sides of the Irish sea, politicians and
  journalists alike were describing the Charter as a genuine breakthrough.
  The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland was to present the White
  Paper to the Commons when Irish business was next scheduled on the
  parfiamentary calen-
  
               294
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dar. Simon, as the architect of the Charter, had been asked to deliver the
 final speech on behalf of the Government. He knew that if the House backed
 the concept of the document he might then be allowed to prepare a
 parliamentary bilI and thus overcome a problem so many other politicians
 had failed to solve before him. If he succeeded, Simon felt that all his
 efforts would prove worthwhile.
  When Elizabeth sat down to read through the final draft in Simon's study,
  even she admitted for the first time that she was pleased that he had
  accepted the Irish appointment.
  Peter rushed in the front door covered with mud. "We won four to three.
  When's dinner? I'm starving."
 Both Simon and Effizabeth laughed.
  "As soon as you've had a bath," she said to her retreating son. "Now,
  embryonic statesman," Elizabeth continued, turning back to Simon, "are
  you also ready for your dinner like every normal human being at this time
  in the evening9"
  "I certainly am, and I haven't won four to three yet." Simon moved his
  copy of the one hundred and twentynine page Charter onto his desk,
  planning to go over it again once he had finished dinner.
  Peter came bounding down the stairs a few minutes later. "I scored the
  winning goal, Dad."
 "During the half-time interval, no doubt?"
  "Very funny, Dad. No, I was on the right wing when I ... 11

  "Damn," they both heard Elizabeth say from the kitchen.
 "What is it?" asked Simon.
 "I'm out of milk."
 "I'R go and buy some," Simon volunteered.
  "Can I come with you?" said Peter. "Then I can tell you about my goal."
 "Of course you can, son."

               295
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

  The two policemen on the door were chatting when Simon and Peter came out.
  "Come on, one of you, my wife needs a carton of milk, so affairs of state
  must be held up for the time being."
  "I'm sorry, Minister," said the sergeant. "When I was told you would be in
  for the rest of the evening I allowed the official car to go off duty. But
  Constable Barker can accompany you."
  "That's no problem," said Simon. "We can take my wife's car. Peter, run
  back and pick up Mum's car keys, and while you're at it, find out where
  she's parked the damned thing."
 Peter disappeared back inside.
  "Been in the force long9" Simon asked Constable Barker as they waited on
  the doorstep for Peter to return.
  "Not that long, sir. Started on the beat just over a year ago-"
 "Are you married, Constable?"
 "Fine chance on my salary, sir."
  "Then you won't have encountered the problem of being milkless."
  "I don't think they've ever heard of milk in the police canteen, sir."
  "You should try the House of Commons sometime," said Simon. "I don't
  imagine you'd find it any betterthe food, that is, not to mention the
  salary."
  The constable laughed as Peter returned, jangling the car keys.
  "Off we go, Constable, but I warn you, you'll have to suffer a running
  commentary on my son's school football match. He scored the winning goal,"
  said Simon, winking at the policeman.
  "I was going down the right wing," said Peter, oblivious to his father's
  sarcasm, "and first I dodged past my opposite number, then I flicked the
  ball to my captain

               296
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 before running flat out back into the center." Peter paused to make sure
 both men were following the details with rapt attention. Satisfied, he
 continued. "The captain passed the ball back to me and I took it on the full
 toss with my left leg, blocked it, controlled it and then shot at the far
 corner of the goal mouth." Peter paused again.
  "Don't keep us in suspense," said Simon as they reached the car.
  "The goalie dived full length, his finger touching the ball," said Peter as
  Simon opened the car door, "but it was too late. I . . "
  Like everyone else in Beaufort Street, Elizabeth heard the explosion, but
  she was the first to realize what it must be. She ran out of the front door
  in search of the duty policeman. She saw him running down the road and
  quickly followed.
  The little red car was scattered all over the side street, the glass from
  its windows making the pavement look as though there had been a sudden
  hailstorm.
  When the sergeant saw the severed head, he pulled Elizabeth back. Two other
  forms lay motionless in the road.
  Within minutes, six police cars and an ambulance had arrived and Special
  Branch officers had cordoned off the area with white ribbon. The job of
  picking up the remains of the police constable needed a very resolute man.
  Elizabeth was taken to Westminster Hospital in a police car, where she
  learned that both her husband and son were in critical condition. When she
  told the surgeon in charge that she was a doctor, he was more forthcoming
  and answered her questions candidly. Simon was suffering from multiple
  fractures and lacerations, a dislocated hip, and a severe loss of blood.
  The doctors were attempting to remove a piece of glass lodged only inches
  from Peter's heart.

               297
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  She sat alone outside the operating room waiting for any scrap of news.
  Hour after hour went by, and Elizabeth kept recalling Simon's words: "Be
  tolerant. Always remember there are still men of good will in Northern
  Ireland." She found it almost impossible not to scream, to think of the
  whole lot of them as murderers. Her husband had worked tirelessly on their
  behalf. He wasn't working as a Catholic or a Protestant, just as a man try-
  ing to do an impossible task. Her son only wanted to get back home and tell
  her about his goal. And in the back of her mind was the knowledge that she
  had been the intended target.
  Another hour passed. She watched a policeman steer reporters-who were
  arriving by the minute-into an anteroom off the main entrance. Finally a
  tired, grayfaced man came out into the corridor through the flapping rubber
  doors. "Your husband's still hanging on, Dr. Kerslake. He has the
  constitution of an ox; most people would have let go by now. We'll know
  more about your son's condition as soon as the operation is over. All I
  know is, they have managed to remove the piece of glass." He smiled. "Can
  I find you a room so that you can get some sleep?"
  "No, thank you," Elizabeth replied. "I'd prefer to be near them." She added
  in a distracted way, "I want to hear about the winning goal."
 She did not notice the doctor's puzzled look.
  Elizabeth phoned home to check how Lucy was coping. Elizabeth's mother
  answered the phone. She had rushed over the moment she had heard and was
  keeping Lucy away from the radio and the television. "How are they?" she
  asked.
  Elizabeth told her mother all she knew and then spoke to Lucy.
  "I'm taking care of Grandmother," Lucy promised her.
 Elizabeth couldn't hold back the tears. "Thank you,

               298
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 darling," she said and quickly replaced the receiver. She returned to the
 bench outside the operating room, kicked off her shoes, curled her legs
 under her body and tried to snatch some sleep.
  She woke with a start in the early morning. Her back hurt and her neck
  was stiff. She walked slowly up and down the corridor in her bare feet
  stretching her aching limbs, searching for anyone who could tell her some
  news. Finally a nurse who brought her a cup of tea assured her that her
  husband and son were both still alive. What did "still alive" mean?
  She stood and watched the grim faces coming out of the two operating
  rooms and tried not to recognize the telltale signs of despair. The
  surgeon told her she ought to go home and rest. They could tell her
  nothing definite for at least twenty-four hours.
  Elizabeth didn't move from the corridor for another day and another
  night, and she didn't return home until the surgeon told her the news.
 When she heard she fell on her knees and wept.
  Simon would live; they had saved her husband's life. She continued to
  weep. Her son Peter had died a few minutes before. They had tried
  everything.

 299
              24.

 "GOT TIME FOR A QUICK ONET' asked Alexander Dalglish.
 "If you press me," said Pimkin.
  "Fiona," shouted Alexander. "It's Alec Pimkin; he's dropped in for a
  dfink."
  Fiona came in to join them. She was dressed in a bright yellow frock and
  had allowed her hair to grow down to her shoulders.
 "It suits you," said Pimkin, tapping his bald head.
  "Thank you," said Fiona. "Why don't we all go through to the drawing
  room?"
  Pimkin happily obeyed and had soon settled himself into Alexander's
  favorite chair.
  "What will you have?" asked Fiona, as she stood by the bar cabinet.
 "A large gin with just a rumor of tonic."
  "Well, how's the constituency faring since my resignation?" asked
  Alexander.
  "It ticks along, trying hard to survive the biggest sex scandal since
  Profumo," chuckled Alec.
  "I only hope it hasn't harmed you politically," said Alexander.

               300
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Not a bit of it, old fellow," said Pimkin, accepting the large
  Beefeater-and-tonic Fiona handed him. "On the contrary, it's taken their
  minds off me for a change."
 Alexander laughed.
  "In fact," continued Pimkin, "interest in the date of your wedding has been
  eclipsed only by that of Charles and Lady Di. Gossips tell me," he
  continued, clearly enjoying himself, "that my Honorable friend, the Member
  for Sussex Downs, made you wait the full two years before you could place
  an announcement in The Times."
  "Yes that's true," said Fiona. "Charles didn't even answer my letters
  during that period, but lately, when any problem's arisen, he's been almost
  friendly."
  "Could that be because he also wants to place an announcement in The
  Times?" said Pimkin, downing his gin quickly in the hope of being offered
  a second.
 "What do you mean?"
  "The fact that he has lost his heart to Amanda Wallace."
  "Amanda'?" said Fiona in disbelief. "Surely, he's got more sense than
  that."
  "I don't think it has much to do with sense," said Pimkin, holding out his
  glass. "More to do with sexual attraction."
  "But he's old enough to be her father. Besides, Amanda is hardly his type."
  "That may well be the case, but I am informed by a reliable source that
  marriage is being proposed."
 "You can't be serious," said Fiona flatly.
  "The subject has most certainly been broached, for she is undoubtedly
  pregnant and Charles is hoping for a son," said Pirakin in triumph as he
  accepted his second double gin.
  "That's not possible," said Fiona. "I can assure you---2' She caught
  herself and stopped.
 "And I can assure you that some of the more ungener-
               301
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ous of our brethren are already suggesting the names of several candidates
 for the role of father."
 "Alec, you're incorrigible."
  "My dear, it is common knowledge that Amanda has slept with half the
  Cabinet and a considerable cross section of backbenchers."
 "Stop exaggerating," said Fiona.
  "And what's more," continued Pimkin as if he hadn't heard her, "she has
  only stopped short of the Labour front bench because her mother told her
  they were common and she might catch something from them."
  Alexander laughed, "But surely Charles hasn't fallen for the pregnancy
  trick?"
  "Hook, line and sinker. He's like an Irishman who's been locked into a
  Guinness brewery over a weekend. Dear Amanda has my Honorable friend
  uncorking her at every opportunity."
  "But she's just plain stupid," said Alexander. "The only time I met her
  she assured me that David Frost was turning out to be an excellent
  chairman of the Conservative Party."
  "Stupid she may be, but plain she is not. I'm told they are updating the
  Kama Sutra together."
 "Enough, Alec, enough," said Fiona, laughing.
  "You're right," said Pimkin, aware that his glass was nearly empty once
  again. "A man of my impeccable reputation cannot afford to be seen
  associating with people living in sin. I must leave immediately,
  darlings," he said, rising to his feet. Pimkin put his glass down and
  Alexander accompanied him to the front door.
  As it closed, Alexander turned to Fiona. "Never short of useful
  information, our member," he said.
  "I agree," said Fiona. "So much gleaned for such a small investment in
  Beefeater."
  As Alexander walked back into the drawing room he added, "So what have
  you done about the Holbein?"
 "I signed the final documents this morning, after we

               302
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 both agreed that at last Charles had come to his senses. He even wanted to
 rush the proceedings through."
  "And now we know why," said Alexander. "So I see no reason why we should
  fall in so conveniently with his little plan."
 "What do you have in mind?" asked Fiona.
  "Have you seen this'?" he asked, passing her a copy of Sotheby's latest
  catalogue of Old Master paintings.

  Three weeks after the bombing, Simon left the Westminster Hospital on
  crutches, Elizabeth by his side. His fight leg had been so shattered that
  he had been told he would never walk properly again. As he stepped out onto
  Horseferry Road, a hundred cameras flashed to meet editors' demands to
  capture the tragic hero. None of the photographers asked Simon and
  Elizabeth to smile. Normally cynical journalists were moved by the simple
  dignity with which both the Minister and his wife conducted themselves. The
  pictures the press carried the next day showed clearly they had lost their
  only son.
  After a month of complete rest, Simon returned to his Irish Charter against
  doctor's orders, knowing the document was still due to be debated in the
  House in only two weeks' time.
  The Secretary of State and the Under Secretary for Northern Ireland visited
  Simon at home on several occasions, and it was agreed that the Under
  Secretary would take over Simon's responsibilities temporarily and deliver
  the winding-up speech. During his absence the whole Northern Ireland office
  came to realize just how much work Simon had put into the Charter, and no
  one was complacent about taking his place.
  The attempt on Simon's life and the death of his son had turned the special
  debate on the Charter into a national media event, the BBC scheduling a
  broadcast of the entire proceedings on Radio Four from three-thirty to the
  vote at ten o'clock.

               303
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  On the afternoon of the debate, Simon sat up in bed, listening to every
  word on the radio as if it were the final episode in a dramatic serial,
  desperate to learn the outcome. The speeches opened with a clear and
  concise presentation of the Charter by the Secretary of State for Northern
  Ireland, which left Simon feeling confident that the whole House would
  support his plan. The Opposition spokesman followed with a fair-minded
  speech, raising one or two queries about the controversial Patriots' Clause
  with its special rights for Protestants in the South and Catholics in the
  North, and about how it would affect the Catholics unwilling to register in
  Northern Ireland. Otherwise, he reassured the House that the Opposition
  supported the Char-ter and would not call for a division vote.
  Simon began to relax for the first time as the debate continued, but his
  mood changed as some back-bench members started to express more and more
  anxiety over the Patriots' Provision. One or two of them were even
  insisting that the Charter should not be sanctioned by the House until the
  need for the Patriots' Provision was fully explained by the Government.
  Simon realized that a few narrow-minded men were simply playing for time in
  the hope the Charter would be held up and in later months forgotten. For
  generations such men had succeeded in stifling the hopes and aspirations of
  the Irish people while they allowed bigotry to undermine any real progress
  toward peace. Elizabeth came in and sat on the end of the bed.
 "How's it going?" she asked.
  "Not well," said Simon. "It will now all depend on the Opposition
  spokesman." They both listened intently.
  No sooner had the Opposition spokesman risen than Simon realized that this
  man had misunderstood the real purpose of the Patriots' Provision and that
  what Simon had agreed to with both sides in Dublin and Belfast was not
  being accurately explained to the House. There was

               304
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 no malice in the speech. The man was clearly following what had been agreed
 to through the usual channels, but Simon could sense that his lack of
 conviction was sowing doubts in the minds of members. A division vote might
 be called after all.
  After one or two members raised further questions about the Patriots'
  Clause, the Shadow Minister finally suggested, "Perhaps we should wait
  until the Minister of State is fully recovered and able to report to the
  House himself."
  Simon felt sick. He was going to lose the Charter if it didn't get through
  the House tonight. All the hard work and good will would count for nothing.
  His son's death would count for nothing. Simon made a decision. "I'd love
  a hot cup of cocoa," he said, trying to sound casual.
  "Of course, darling. I'll just go and turn the kettle on. Would you like a
  biscuit while I'm up7"
  Simon nodded, Once the bedroom door was closed, he slipped quietly out of
  bed and dressed as quickly as he could. He picked up his blackthorn stick,
  a gift from Dr. Fitzgerald, the Irish Prime Minister, which had been among
  the dozens of presents sent to his home awaiting his return from the
  hospital. Then he hobbled silently down the stairs and across the hall,
  hoping Elizabeth and Lucy would not hear him. He eased the front door open.
  When the policeman on duty saw him, Simon put a finger to his lips and
  closed the door very slowly behind him. He made his way laboriously up to
  the police car, lurched into the back and said, "Switch on the radio,
  please, and drive me to the House as quickly as possible."
  Simon continued to listen to the Opposition spokesman as the police car
  weaved in and out of the traffic on a route he hadn't traveled before. They
  arrived at the St. Stephen's entrance to the Commons at nine twenty-five.
  Visitors stood to one side as they might for royalty. But Simon didn't
  notice. He hobbled on as quickly as he 305
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 could through the central lobby, oblivious to the awkwardness of his gait,
 turning left past the policeman and on toward the entrance of the House.
 He prayed he would reach the chamber before the Government spokesman rose
 to deliver his winding-up speech. Simon passed an astonished chief
 doorkeeper and arrived at the bar of the House as the new digital clock
 showed 9:29.
  The Opposition spokesman was resuming his place on the front bench to
  muffled cries of "Hear, hear." The Speaker rose, but before he had time
  to call upon the Minister of State to reply, Simon stepped slowly forward
  onto the green carpet of the Commons. For a moment there was a stunned
  silence; then the cheering began. It had reached a crescendo by the time
  Simon arrived at the front bench. His blackthorn stick fell to the floor
  as he clutched the dispatch box. The Speaker called out his name sotto
  voce.
  Simon waited for the House to come to complete silence.
  "Mr. Speaker, I must thank the House for its generous welcome. I return
  this evening because, having listened to every word of the debate on the
  radio, I feel it necessary to explain to Honorable Members what was
  behind my thinking on the Patriots' Provision. This was not some
  superficial formula for solving an intractable problem, but an act of
  good faith to which the representatives from all sides felt able to put
  their names. It may not be perfect, since words can mean different things
  to different people-as lawyers continually demonstrate to us."
  The laughter broke the tension that had been building in the House.
  "But if we allow this opportunity to pass today, it will be another
  victory for those who revel in the mayhem of Northern Ireland, whatever
  their reason, and a defeat for all men of good will."
The House was silent as Simon went on to explain in 306
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 detail the theory behind the Patriots' Provision and the effect it would
 have on both Protestants and Catholics in North and South. He also covered
 the other salient clauses in the Charter, answering the points that had been
 raised during the debate until, in glancing up at the clock above the
 Speaker's chair, he realized he had less than a minute left.
  "Mr. Speaker, we in this great House, who have in the past decided the fate
  of nations, are now given an opportunity to succeed today where our
  predecessors have failed. I ask you to support this Charter-not unreserv-
  edly, but to show the bombers and the murderers that here in Westminster we
  can cast a vote for the children of tomorrow's Ireland. Let the
  twenty-first century be one in which the Irish problem is only a part of
  history. Mr. Speaker, I seek the support of the whole House."
  The motion on the Charter was agreed to without a division.
  Simon immediately returned home, and on arrival silently crept upstairs. He
  closed the bedroom door behind him and fumbled for the switch. The light by
  the side of the bed went on, and Elizabeth sat up.
  "Your cocoa's gone cold and I've eaten all the biscuits," she said
  brightly, "but thank you for leaving the radio on. At least I knew where
  you were."
 Simon started to laugh.
 Elizabeth started to cry.
  "What's the matter, darling?" said Simon, coming to her side.
 "Peter would have been so proud of you."

 307
              25

 CHARLES AND AMANDA were married at the most inconspicuous registry office
 in Hammersmith. They then departed for a long weekend in Paris. Charles
 had told his bride that he preferred not to let anyone learn of the
 marriage for at least another week. He didn't want Fiona to find a further
 excuse for not returning the Hotbein. Amanda readily agreed, and then she
 remembered; but surely Alec Pirnkin didn't count?
  When they arrived on Friday night at the PlazaAth6n6e, they were escorted
  to a suite overlooking the courtyard. Later, over dinner, Amanda
  astonished the waiters with her appetite as well as the cut of her dress.
  Paris turned out to be fun, but when Charles read in the Herald Tribune
  the next day that Mrs. Thatcher was considering a reshuffle that very
  weekend, he cut their honeymoon short and returned to London on Sunday,
  two days earlier than planned. Amanda was not overjoyed. Her husband
  spent Saturday evening and the whole of Sunday at Eaton Square next to
  a phone that never tang.

  That same Sunday evening the Prime Minister called for Simon Kerslake and
  told him that he was to be made

               308
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 a Privy Councillor and would be moved from the Northern Ireland Office to
 the Foreign Office as Minister of State.
  He had started to protest, but Mrs. Thatcher forestalled any discussion. "I
  don't want any more dead heroes, Simon," she said sharply. "Your family has
  been through enough."
  Elizabeth was relieved when she heard the news--although Simon doubted if
  she would ever fully recover from the ordeal. Whereas his scars were
  visible for all to see, hers, he suspected, were deeper-grained.

  Mrs. Thatcher finally called Charles Hampton on Tuesday morning while he
  was waiting in Eaton Square for the return of the Holbein. His lawyers had
  agreed with Fiona's that the first Earl of Bridgewater should he back at
  Charles's home by eleven that morning. Only the Queen or Mrs. Thatcher
  could have kept Charles from being there to receive it. The Prime
  Minister's call came long after he thought the reshuffle was over.
  Charles took a taxi to Downing Street and was quickly ushered into the
  Prime Minister's study. Mrs. Thatcher began by complimenting him on the
  work he had carried out on successive finance bills in Opposition and in
  Government. She then invited him to join the front-bench team as a Minister
  of State at the Treasury.
  Charles accepted gracefully, and after a short policy discussion with the
  Prime Minister drove back to Eaton Square to celebrate both his triumphs.
  Amanda met him at the door to tell him the Holbein had been returned. Fiona
  had kept her part of the bargain: the painting had been delivered at eleven
  o'clock sharp.
  Charles strode confidently into his drawing room, delighted to find the
  bulky package awaiting him. He was by no means so pleased to be followed by
  Amanda, a cigarette in one hand and a glass of gin in the other-, but this
  was not a day for quarrels, he decided. He told her 309
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 of his appointment, but she didn't seem to take in its significance until
 her husband opened a bottle of cham-
 pagne.
  Charles poured out two glasses and handed one to his bride.
  "A double celebration. What fun," she said, first finishing her gin.
  Charles took a quick sip of the champagne before he began to untie the
  knots and tear away the smart red wrapping paper that covered his
  masterpiece. Once the paper had been removed he pulled back the final
  cardboard covers. Charles stared with delight at the portrait.
  The first Earl of Bridgewater was back home. Charles picked up the gold
  frame he knew so well to return it to its place in the dining room, but
  he noticed that the picture had come a little loose.
 "Damn," he said.
  "What's the matter?" asked Amanda, still leaning against the door,
  "Nothing important, only I shall have to get the frame fixed. I'll drop
  it at Oliver Swann's on the way to the bank. I've waited nearly three
  years-another couple of days won't make any difference."
  Now that Charles had accepted the post of Minister of State at the
  Treasury he knew there was one little arrangement he had to clear up
  before the appointment became public knowledge. With that in mind, he
  drove to the bank and summoned Clive Reynolds to his office. It was clear
  from Reynolds's manner that the news of Charles's Ministerial appointment
  had not yet become public.
  "Clive--" Charles called him that for the first time-"I have a
  proposition to put to you."
 Clive Reynolds remained silent.
  "The Prime Minister has offered me a post in the Government."

               310
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Congratulations," said Reynolds, "and well deserved, if I may say so."
  "Thank you," said Charles. "Now-I'm considering offering you the chance
  to stand in for me as chairman during my absence."
 Clive Reynolds looked surprised.
  "On the clear understanding that if the Conservatives were to return to
  Opposition or I were to lose my appointment in Government, I would be
  reinstated as chairman immediately."
  "Naturally," said Reynolds. "I should be delighted to fill the
  appointment for the interim period."
  "Good man," said Charles. "It can't have escaped your notice what
  happened to the last chairman in the same situation."
 "I shall make certain that will not happen again."
  "Thank you," said Charles. "I shall not forget your loyalty when I
  return."
  "And I shall also endeavor to carry on the traditions of the bank in your
  absence," said Reynolds, his head slightly bowed.
 "I feel sure you will," said Charles,
  The board accepted the recommendation that Clive Reynolds be appointed
  as temporary chairman, and Charles vacated his office happily to take up
  his new post at the Treasury.

  Charles considered it had been the most successful week of his life, and
  on Friday evening on the way back to Eaton Square he dropped into Oliver
  Swann's gallery to pick up the Holbein.
  "I'm afraid the picture didn't quite fit the frame," said Mr. Swann.
  "Oh, I expect it's worked loose over the years," Charles said.
  "No, Mr. Hampton, this frame was put on the portrait quite recently,"
  said Swann.

               311
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "That's not possible," said Charles. "I remember the frame as well as I
  remember the picture. The portrait of the first Earl of Bridgewater has
  been in my family for over four hundred years."
 "Not this picture," said Swann.
  "What (to you mean?" said Charles, beginning to sound anxious.
  "This picture came up for sale at Sotheby's about three weeks ago."
 Charles went cold as Swann continued.
  "It's the school of Holbein, of course," he said. "Probably painted by
  one of his pupils around the time of his death. I should think there are
  a dozen or so in existence."
  "A dozen or so," repeated Charles, the blood quite drained from his face.
  "Yes, perhaps even more. At least it's solved one mystery for me," said
  Swann, chuckling.
 "What's that?" asked Charles, choking out the words.
  "I couldn't work out why Lady Fiona was bidding for the picture, and then
  I remembered that your family name is Bridgewater."

  "At least this wedding has some style," Pimkin assured Fiona between
  mouthfuls of sandwiches at the reception after her marriage to Alexander
  Dalglish. Pimkin always accepted wedding invitations as they allowed him
  to devour mounds of smoked-salmon sandwiches and consume unlimited
  quantities of champagne. "I particularly enjoyed that short service of
  blessing in the Guards' Chapel; and Claridge's can always be relied on
  to understand my little proclivities." He peered around the vast room and
  only stopped to stare at his reflection in a chandelier.
 Fiona laughed. "Did you go to Charles's wedding9"
 "My darling, I'm told that only Amanda was invited,

               312
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 and even she nearly found she had another engagement. With her doctor, I
 believe."
 "And he certainly can't afford another divorce?"
  "No, not in Chafles's present position as Her Majesty's Minister of
  State. One divorce might go unnoticed but two would be considered
  habit-forming, and all diligent readers of the gossip columns have been
  able to observe that consummation has taken place."
  "But how long will Charles be able to tolerate her behavior?"
  "As long as he still believes she has given him a son who will inherit
  the family title. Not that a marriage ceremony will prove legitimacy,"
  added Pimkin.
 "Perhaps Amanda won't produce a son?"
  "Perhaps whatever she produces will be obviously not Charles's
  offspring," said Pimkin, falling into a chair that had been momentarily
  vacated by a large buxom lady.
 "Even if it was, I can't see Amanda as a housewife."
  "No, but it suits Amanda's current circumstances to be thought of as the
  loving spouse."
 "Time may change that too," said Fiona.
  "I doubt it," said Pimkin. "Amanda is stupid; that has been proven beyond
  reasonable doubt-but she has a survival instinct second only to a
  mongoose's. So while Charles is spending all the hours of the day
  advancing his glittering career, she would be foolish to search publicly
  for greener pastures. Especially when she can always he in them
  privately."
 "You're a wicked old gossip," said Fiona.
 "I cannot deny it," said Pimkin.
  "Fhank you for such a sensible wedding present," said Alexander, joining
  his wife of two hours. "You selected my favorite claret."
  "Giving a dozen bottles of the finest claret serves two purposes," said
  Pimkin, his hands resting lightly on his

               313
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 stomach. "First, you can always be assured of a decent wine when you invite
 yourself to dine."
 "And second?" asked Alexander.
  "When the happy couple split up you can feel relieved that they will no
  longer have your present to quarrel over."
  "Did you give Charles and Amanda a present?" asked Fiona.
  "No," said Pimkin, deftly removing another glass of champagne from a
  passing waiter. "I felt your return of the bogus Earl of Bridgewater was
  quite enough for both of us."
 "I wonder where he is now9" said Alexander.
  "The Earl no longer resides in Eaton Square," said Pirnkin with the air of
  one who has divulged a piece of information which can only guarantee
  further rapt attention.
 "Who would want the phony Earl?"
  "We are not aware of the provenance of the buyer, as he emanates from one
  of Her Majesty's former colonies, but the seller. .."
 "Stop teasing, Alec. Who?"
  "None other than the Honorable Mrs. Amanda Hampton."
 "Amanda?"
  "Yes. Amanda, no less. The dear, silly creature retrieved the false Earl
  from the cellar, where Charles had buried him with full military honors."
 "But she must have realized it was a fake?"
  "My dear, Amanda wouldn't know the difference between a Holbein and an Andy
  Warhol, but she still happily accepted ten thousand pounds for the imper-
  sonation. I am assured that the dealer who purchased this fabricated
  masterpiece made what I think vulgar people in the city describe as 'a
  quick turn.' "
  "Good God," said Alexander. "I only paid eight thousand for it myself"

               314
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Perhaps you should get Amanda to advise you on these matters in the
  future," said Pimkin. "In exchange for my invaluable piece of
  information, I'm bound to inquire if the real Earl of Bridgewater is to
  remain in hiding9"
  "Certainly not, Alec. He is merely awaiting the right moment to make a
  public appearance," said Fiona, unable to hide a smile.
  "And where is Amanda now?" asked Alexander, obviously wanting to change
  the subject.
  "In Switzerland, producing a baby, which we can but hope will bear
  sufficient resemblance to a white Caucasian to convince one of Charles's
  limited imagination that he is the father."
  "Where do you get all your information from?" asked Alexander.
  Pimkin sighed dramatically. "Women have a habit of pouring their hearts
  out to me, Amanda included."
 "Why should she do that?" asked Alexander.
  "She lives safe in the knowledge that I am the one man she knows who has
  no interest in her body." Pimkin drew breath, but only to devour another
  smokedsalmon sandwich.

  Charles phoned Amanda every day while she was in Geneva. She kept
  assuring him all was well, and that the baby was expected on time. He had
  considered it prudent for Amanda not to remain in England advertising her
  pregnancy, a less than recent occurrence to even the most casual
  observer. She for her part did not complain. With ten thousand pounds
  safely tucked away in a private Swiss account, there were few little
  necessities she could not have brought to her, even in Geneva.
  It had taken a few weeks for Charles to become accustomed to Government
  after such a long break. He enjoyed the challenge of the Treasury and
  quickly fell in

               315
         FIRs'r AMONG EQUALS

 with its strange traditions. fie was constantly reminded that his was the
 department on which the Prime Minister kept her closest eye, making the
 challenge even greater. The civil servants, when asked their opinion of
 the new Minister of State, would reply variously: able, competent,
 efficient, hardworking-but without any hint of affection in their voices.
 When someone asked Charles's driver, whose name Charles could never re-
 member, the same question, he proffered the view, "He's the sort of
 Minister who never remembers your name. But I'd still put a week's wages
 on Mr. Hampton becoming Prime Minister."
  Amanda produced her child in the middle of the ninth month. After a week
  of recuperation, she was allowed to return to England. She discovered
  that traveling with the brat was a nuisance, and by the time she arrived
  at Heathrow she was more than happy to turn the child over to the nanny
  Charles had selected.
  Charles had sent a car to pick her up from the airport. He had an
  unavoidable conference with a delegation of Japanese businessmen, he
  explained, all of them busy complaining about the new Government tariffs
  on imports.
  At the first opportunity to be rid of his Oriental guests, he bolted back
  to Eaton Square. Amanda was there to meet him at the door. Charles had
  almost forgotten how beautiful his wife was, and how long she had been
  away.
  "Where's my child?" he asked, after he had given her a long kiss.
  "In a nursery that's more expensively furnished than our bedroom," she
  replied a little sharply.
  Charles ran up the wide staircase and along the passage. Amanda followed.
  He entered the nursery he had spent so much time preparing in her absence
  and stopped in his tracks as he stared at the future Earl of

               316
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Bridgewater. The little black curls and deep brown eyes came as something
 of a shock.
  "Good heavens," said Charles, stepping forward for a closer examination.
  Amanda remained by the door, her hand clutching its handle.
 She had a hundred answers ready for his question.
  "He's the spitting image of my great-grandfather. You skipped a couple
  ot'generations, Harry," said Charles, lifting the boy high into the air,
  "but there's no doubt you're a real Hampton."
  Amanda sighed with inaudible relief. The hundred answers she could now
  keep to herself.

  "It's more than a couple of generations the little bastard has skipped,"
  said Pimkin. "It's an entire continent." He took another sip of
  christening champagne before continuing. "This poor creature, on the
  other hand," he said, staring at Fiona's firstborn, "bears a striking
  resemblance to Alexander. Dear little girl should have been given a
  kinder legacy with which to start her life."
  "She's beautiful," said Fiona, picking her daughter up from the cradle
  to check her diaper.
  "Now we know why you needed to be married so quickly," added Pimkin
  between gulps. "At least this child made wedlock, even if it was a close
  race."
  Fiona continued as if she hadn't heard his remark. "Have you actually
  seen Charles's son?" she asked.
  "I think we should refer to young Harold as Amanda's child," said Pimkin.
  "We don't want to be in violation of the Trade Description Act."
  "Come on, Alec, have you seen Harry?" she asked, refusing to fill his
  empty glass.
  "Yes, I have. And I am afraid he also bears too striking a resemblance
  to his father for it to go unnoticed in later life."

               317
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "Anyone we know?" asked Fiona, probing.
  "I am not a scandalmonger," said Pimkin, removing a crumb from his
  waistcoat. "As you well know. But a certain Brazilian fazendeiro who
  frequents Cowdray Park and Ascot during the summer months has obviously
  maintained his interest in the English fillies."
 Pimkin confidently held out his glass.

 318
             26

 ON A SLEEPY THURSDAY in April 1982 Argentina attacked and occupied two
 small islands whose eighteen hundred British citizens were forced to lower
 the Union Jack for the first time in over a hundred years.
  Mrs. Thatcher immediately dispatched a task force halfway around the
  globe to recapture the sovereign islands. Her fellow countrymen followed
  every scrap of news so intently that London theaters found themselves
  empty at the height of the season.
  Simon felt exhilarated to be a member of the Foreign Office at such an
  historic moment, and Elizabeth didn't begrudge him those days when he
  left before she had awakened, and arrived home after she had fallen
  asleep. By the end of the two long months that proved necessary for the
  British forces to recapture the Falklands, Simon looked well placed to
  join the Cabinet if Mrs. Thatcher won the next election.

  Under less public scrutiny but almost equal pressure, Charles beavered
  away at the Treasury addressing the economic problems that had previously
  eroded his Prime Minister's popularity. After the April budget had

               319
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 been presented, he spent day after day in the House helping to put the
 Government's case. Like Simon, he found he could only snatch moments to
 be at home, but unlike Elizabeth, his wife remained in bed until midday.
 When Charles did manage to slip away from the department, he spent all his
 spare time with Harry, whose progress he followed with delighted interest.
  At the time when the Union Jack was raised once again in the Falklands,
  the budget became an act.
  Charles also considered he would be a contender for a Cabinet seat if the
  Conservatives won a second term.

  Raymond approved of Mrs. Thatcher's resolute stance on the Falklands,
  despite its damping effects on his own political hopes. So greatly did
  her personal popularity increase when the islands were reoccupied that
  Raymond knew there was little chance for the Labour Party to win the next
  General Election.
  When James Callaghan had been replaced by Michael Foot as Labour Leader
  two years before, the Party had drifted even more to the left. Some of
  the more moderate members had deserted Foot to join the newly formed
  Social Democratic Party. Raymond himself was never tempted, as he
  believed Michael Foot would be quickly replaced after the next election.
  When Foot had invited Raymond to continue with the Shadow Trade
  portfolio, Raymond had accepted the assignment with as much enthusiasm
  as he could muster.
  Raymond hated not being able to share his frustrations with Kate, as one
  after another of her predictions became Party policy-not least, the
  process of electing a Leader at the annual Party conference. In the
  beginning she had phoned once a week, and then it became once a month;
  she always sounded so happy that he refused to admit how much he missed
  her. Lately, he found he only contacted her on rare occasions.

               320
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  A year after the recapture of the Falklands, Mrs. Thatcher found that her
  lead in the opinion polls remained at its all-time high. Although it was a
  year earher than necessary, she called a General Election.
  Once the date had been announced, Charles realized he could no longer avoid
  introducing Amanda to the constituency. He had explained to those who
  inquired that his wife had had rather a bad time of it after the birth, and
  had been told by her doctors not to participate in anything that might
  raise her blood pressure-though one or two constituents considered that the
  Sussex Downs Conservatives would find it hard to raise the blood pressure
  of a ninety-year-old with a pacemaker.
  The annual garden party held in the grounds of Lord Sussex's country home
  seemed to Charles to be the ideal opportunity to show off Amanda, and he
  asked her to be certain to wear something appropriate.
  He was aware that designerjeans had come into fashion, and that his
  clothes-conscious wife never seemed to dress in the same thing twice. He
  also knew that liberated women didn't wear bras. But he was nevertheless
  shocked when he saw Amanda in a nearly seethrough blouse and jeans so tight
  that the outline of her underwear could be seen. Charles was genuinely
  horrified.
  "Can't you find something a little more ... conservative?" he suggested.
 "Like the things that old frump Fiona used to wear9"
  Charles couldn't think of a suitable reply. "The garden party will be
  frightfully dull," said Charles desperately. "Perhaps I should go on my
  own."
  Amanda turned and looked him in the eye. "Are you ashamed of me, Charles?"
  He drove his wife silently down to the constituency, and every time he
  glanced over at her he wanted to make an excuse to turn back. When they
  arrived at Lord Sussex's home, his worst fears were confirmed. Neither

               321
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the men nor the women could take their eyes off Amanda as she strolled
 around the lawns devouring strawberries. Many of them would have used the
 word "hussy" if she hadn't been the member's wife.
  Charles might have escaped lightly had it only been the one risqu6 joke
  Amanda told-to the Bishop's wife--or even her curt refusal to judge the
  baby contest or to draw the raffle; but he was not to be so lucky. The
  chairman of the Ladies' Advisory Committee had met her match when she was
  introduced to the member's wife.
  "Darling," said Charles, "I don't think you've met Mrs. Blenkinsop."
  "No, I haven't," said Amanda, ignoring Mrs. Blenkinsop's outstretched
  hand.
  "Mrs. Blenkinsop," continued Charles, "was awarded the OBE for her
  services to the constituency."
 "OBET' Amanda asked innocently.
  Mrs. Blenkinsop drew herself up to her full height. "Order of the British
  Empire," she said.
  "I've always wondered," said Amanda, smiling. "Because my dad used to
  tell me it stood for 'other buggers' efforts.' "

  Amanda didn't accompany her husband throughout the election campaign, but
  it made little difference to Charles's vast majority in Sussex Downs.
  Simon was surprised by the huge 144 majority the Conservatives gained in
  the Commons, while Raymond resigned himself to another five years in
  Opposition and began to turn more of his attention to his practice at the
  bar and a new round of time-consuming cases. When the Attorney General
  offered him the chance to become a High Court judge, with a place in the
  House of Lords, Raymond gave the matter considerable thought before
  finally asking Joyce for her opinion.
 "You'd be bored to tears in a week," she told him.
               322
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "No more bored than I am now."
 "Your turn will come."
  "Joyce, I'm nearly fifty, and all I have to show for it is the
  chairmanship of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry. If the Party
  fails to win next time, I may never hold office again. Don't forget that
  on the last occasion we lost this badly we were in Opposition for
  thirteen years. ~9
  "Once Michael Foot has been replaced, the Party will take on a new look,
  and I'm sure you'll be offered one of the senior Shadow jobs."
  "That'll depend on who's our next Leader," said Raymond. "And I can't see
  a great deal of difference between Neil Kinnock, who looks unbeatable,
  and Michael Foot. I fear they are both too far left to win a General
  Election."
 "Then why not run yourself?" asked Joyce.
  "It's too early for me," said Raymond. "I'll be a serious candidate next
  time."
  "Then why don't you at least wait until we know who's going to be Leader
  of the Party?" said Joyce. "You can become a judge anytime."
  When Raymond returned to his chambers on Monday he followed Joyce's
  advice, let the Attorney General know that he was not interested in being
  a judge for the foreseeable future, and settled down to keep a watchful
  eye on the new Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
  Only a few days later Michael Foot announced that he would not be running
  again for Leader when the Party's annual conference took place. That left
  Neil Kinnock and Roy Hattersley the frontrunners. During the weeks
  leading up to the Labour Party's conference, several trade unionists and
  MPs approached Raymond and asked him to run but he told them all, "Next
  time."
  As Raymond had predicted, Kinnock won handily. Hattersley was elected his
  deputy.

               323
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  After the conference Raymond returned to Leeds for the weekend, still
  confident that he would be offered a major post in the Shadow Cabinet
  despite the fact that he hadn't supported the winner. Having completed his
  Leeds office hours, he hung around the house waiting for the new Leader to
  call him. When Neil Kinnock eventually phoned late that evening Raymond was
  shocked by his offer and replied without hesitation that he was not
  interested. It was a short conversation.
  Joyce came into the drawing room as he sank back into his favorite
  armchair.
 "Well, what did he offer you?" she asked, facing him.
 "Transport. Virtually a demotion."
 "What did you say?"
 "I turned him down, of course."
 "Who has he given the main jobs to?"
  "I didn't ask, and he didn't volunteer, but I suspect we'll only have to
  wait for the morning papers to find out. Not that I'm that interested," he
  continued, staring at the floor, "as I intend to take the first place that
  comes free on the legal bench. I've wasted too many years already."
 "So have I," said Joyce quietly-
  "What do you mean?" asked Raymond, looking up at his wife for the first
  time since she had come into the room.
  "If you're going to make a complete break, I think it's time for me to do
  so as well."
 "I don't understand," said Raymond.
  "We haven't been close for a long time, Ray," said Joyce, looking straight
  into her husband's eyes. "If you're thinking of giving up the constituency
  and spend even more time in London, I think we should part." She turned
  away.
  "Is there someone else?" asked Raymond, his voice cracking.
 "No one special."

               324
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "But someone?"
  "There is a man who wants to marry me," said Joyce, "if that's what you
  mean. We were at school in Bradford together. He's an accountant now and
  has never married."
 "But do you love him?"
  Joyce considered the question. "No, I can't pretend I do. But we're good
  friends, he's very kind and understanding, and, more important, he's
  there."
 Raymond couldn't move.
  "And the break would at least give you the chance to ask Kate Garthwaite
  to give up her job in New York and return to London." Raymond gasped.
  "Think about it and let me know what you decide." She left the room
  quickly so that he could not see her tears.
  Raymond sat alone in the room and thought back over his years with
  Joyce-and Kate-and knew exactly what he wanted to do, now that the whole
  affair was out in the open.

  Harry Hampton's third birthday party was attended by all those
  three-year-olds in the vicinity of Eaton Square whom his nanny considered
  acceptable. Charles managed to escape from a departmental meeting accom-
  panied by a large box of paint and a red tricycle. As he parked his car
  in Eaton Square he spotted Fiona's old Volvo driving away toward Sloane
  Square. He dismissed the coincidence. Harry naturally wanted to ride the
  tricycle around and around the dining-room table. Charles sat watching
  his son and couldn't help noticing that he was smaller than most of his
  friends. Then he remembered that Great-grandfather had only been five
  feet eight inches tall.
  It was the moment after the candles had been blown out, and nanny had
  switched the light back on, that Charles was first aware that something
  was missing. It was like the game children play with objects on a tray:

               325
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 everyone shuts his eyes, nanny takes one object away and then you all have
 to guess which it was.
  It took Charles some time to realize that the missing object was his
  small gold cigar box. He walked over to the sideboard and studied the
  empty space. He continued to stare at the spot where the small gold box
  left to him by his great-grandfather had been the previous night. Now all
  that was left in its place was the matching lighter.
  He immediately asked Amanda if she knew where the heirloom was, but his
  wife seemed totally absorbed in lining up the children for a game of
  musical chairs. After checking carefully in the other rooms, Charles went
  into his study and phoned the Chelsea police.
  An inspector from the local precinct came around immediately and took
  down all the details. Charles was able to supply the police officer with
  a photograph of the box, which carried the initials C.G.H. He stopped
  just short of mentioning Fiona by name.

  Raymond caught the last train to London the same evening because he had
  to be in court to hear a verdict by ten o'clock the next morning. In the
  flat that night he slept intermittently as he thought about how he would
  spend the rest of his new life. Before he went into court the next
  morning he ordered a dozen red roses via Interflora. He phoned the
  Attorney General. If he was going to change his life, he must change it
  in every way.
  When the verdict had been given and the judge had passed sentence,
  Raymond checked the plane schedules. Nowadays you could be there in such
  a short time. He booked his flight and took a taxi to Heathrow. He sat
  on the plane praying it wasn't too late and that too much time hadn't
  passed. The flight seemed endless, as did the taxi drive from the
  airport.
 When he arrived at her front door she was astonished.

               326
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "What are you doing here on a Monday afternoon?" she asked.
  "I've come to try and win you back," said Raymond. "Christ, that sounds
  comy," he added.
  "It's the nicest thing you've said in years," she said as he held her in
  his arms; over Joyce's shoulder Raymond could see the roses brightening up
  the drawing room.

  Over a quiet dinner, Raymond told Joyce of his plans to accept the Attorney
  General's offer to join the Bench, but only if she would agree to live in
  London. They had a second bottle of champagne.
  When they arrived at home a little after one, the phone was ringing.
  Raymond opened the door and stumbled toward it while Joyce groped for the
  light switch.
  "Raymond, I've been trying to get you all night," a lilting Welsh voice
  said.
  "Have you now9" Raymond said thickly, trying to keep his eyes open.
 "You sound as if you've been to a good party."
 "I've been celebrating with my wife."
 "Celebrating9 Before you've heard the news?"
  "What news?" said Raymond, collapsing into the armchair.
  "I've been juggling the new team around all day and I was hoping you would
  agree to join the Shadow Cabinet as..."
  Raymond sobered up very quickly and listened carefully to Neil Kinnock.
  "Can you hold the line?"
 "Of course," said the surprised voice at the other end.
  "Joyce," said Raymond, as she came out of the kitchen clutching two mugs of
  very black coffee. "Would you agree to five with me in London if I don't
  become a judge?"
 A wide smile spread over Joyce's face with the realiza-
               327
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 tion that he was seeking her approval. She nodded several times.
 "I'd be delighted to accept," he said.
  "Thank you, Raymond. Perhaps we could meet at my office in the Commons
  tomorrow and talk over policy in your new field."
  "Yes, of course," said Raymond. "See you tomorrow." He dropped the phone on
  the floor and fell asleep in the chair, grinning.
  Joyce replaced the phone and didn't discover until the following morning
  that her husband was the new Shadow Secretary of State for Defense.

  Charles had heard nothing for three weeks about the missing gold box and
  was beginning to despair when the inspector phoned to say that the family
  heirloom had been found.
  "Excellent news," said Charles. "Are you able to bring the box around to
  Eaton Square?"
  "It's not quite as simple as that, sir," said the policeman.
 "What do you mean?"
  "I would prefer not to discuss the matter over the phone. May I come and
  see you, sir?"
 "By all means," said Charles, slightly mystified.
  He waited impatiently for the inspector to arrive, although the policeman
  was at the front door barely ten minutes later. His first question took
  Charles by surprise.
 "Are we alone, sir?"
  "Yes," said Charles. "My wife and son are away visiting my mother-in-law in
  Wales. You say you've found the gold box," he continued, impatient to hear
  the inspector's news.
 "Yes, sir."
 "Well done, Inspector. I shall speak to the commis-
               328
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 sioner personally," he added, guiding the officer toward the drawing room.
 "I'm afraid there's a complication, sir."
 "How can there be when you've found the box?"
  "We cannot be sure there was anything illegal about its disappearance in
  the first place."
 "What do you mean, Inspector?"
  "The gold case was offered to a dealer in Grafton Street for twenty-five
  hundred pounds."
  "And who was doing the selling?" asked Charles impatiently.
  "That's the problem, sir. The check was made out to Amanda Hampton and the
  description fits your wife," said the inspector. Charles was speechless.
  "And the dealer has a receipt to prove the transaction." The inspector
  passed over a copy of the receipt. Charles was unable to steady his shaking
  hand as he recognized Amanda's signature.
  "Now, as this matter has already been referred to the Director of Public
  Prosecutions, I thought I ought to have a word with you in private, as I am
  sure you would not want us to press charges."
  "Yes, no, of course, thank you for your consideration, Inspector," said
  Charles flatly.
  "Not at all, sir. The dealer has made his position clear: he will be only
  too happy to return the cigar box for the exact sum he paid for it. I don't
  think that could be fairer."
  Charles made no comment other than to thank the inspector again before
  showing him out.
  He returned to his study, phoned Amanda at her mother's house and told her
  to return immediately. She started to protest, but he'd already hung up.
  Charles remained at home until they all arrived back at Eaton Square late
  that night. The nanny and Harry were immediately sent upstairs.

               329
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  It took Charles about five minutes to discover that only a few hundred
  pounds of the money was left. When his wife burst into tears he struck
  her across the face with such force that she fell to the ground. "If
  anything else disappears from this house," he said, "you will go with it,
  and I will also make sure you spend a very long time in jail." Amanda ran
  out of the room sobbing uncontrollably.
  The following day Charles advertised for a full-time governess. He also
  moved his own bedroom to the top floor so that he could be close to his
  son. Amanda made no protest.

  Raymond gave up his flat in the Barbican, and he and Joyce moved into a
  small Georgian house in Cowley Street, only a few hundred yards from the
  House of Commons.
  Raymond watched Joyce decorate his study first, then she set about the
  rest of the house with the energy and enthusiasm of a newlywed. Once
  Joyce had completed the guest bedroom, Raymond's parents came down to
  spend the weekend. Raymond burst out laughing when he greeted his father
  at the door clutching a bag marked "Gould the Family Butcher."
  "They do have meat in London, you know," said Raymond.
 "Not like mine, son," his father replied.
  Over the finest beef dinner Raymond could remember, he watched Joyce and
  his mother chatting away. "Thank God I woke up in time," he said out
  loud.
 "What did you say?" asked Joyce.
 "Nothing, my dear. Nothing."

  Alec Pimkin threw a party for all of his Tory colleagues who had entered
  the House in 1964, "To celebrate the first twenty years in the Commons,"
  as he

               330
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 described the occasion in an impromptu after-dinner speech.
  Over brandy and cigars the corpulent, balding figure sat back and surveyed
  his fellow members. Many had fallen by the way over the years, but of those
  that were left, he believed only two men now dominated the intake.
  Pimkin's eyes first settled on his old friend Charles Hampton. Despite
  studying him closely, he was still unable to spot a gray hair on the
  Treasury Minister's head. From time to time Pimkin still saw Amanda, who
  had returned to being a fulltime model and was rarely to be found in
  England nowadays. Charles, he suspected, saw more of her on magazine covers
  than he ever did in his home at Eaton Square. Pimkin had been surprised by
  how much time Charles was willing to put aside for little Harry. Charles
  was the last man he would have suspected of ending up a doting father.
  Certainly the coals of his ambitions had in no way dimmed, and Pimkin
  suspected that only one man remained a worthy rival for the Party
  Leadership.
  Pimkin's eyes moved on to someone for whom the responsibility of high
  office seemed to hold no fears. Simon Kerslake was deep in animated
  conversation about his work on the proposed disarmament talks between
  Thatcher, Chernenko and Reagan. Pimkin studied the Foreign Office Minister
  intently. He considered that if he himself had been graced with such looks,
  he would not have had to fear for his dwindling majority.
  Rumors of some financial crisis had long since died away, and Kerslake now
  seemed well set for a formidable future.
  The party began to break up as one by one his contemporaries came over to
  thank him for such a "splendid ... .. memorable," "worthwhile" evening.
  When the last one had departed and PJmkin found himself alone,

               331
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 he drained the drop of brandy that remained in his balloon and stubbed out
 the dying cigar. He sighed as he speculated on the fact that he could now
 never hope to be made a Minister.
  He therefore determined to become a kingmaker, for in another twenty
  years there would be nothing left on which to speculate.

  Raymond celebrated his twenty years in the House by taking Joyce to the
  Ivy Restaurant off Berkeley Square for dinner. He admired the long
  burgundy dress his wife had chosen for the occasion and even noticed that
  once or twice women gave it more than a casual glance throughout their
  meal.
  He too reflected on his twenty years in the Commons, and he told Joyce
  over a brandy that he hoped he would spend more of the next twenty years
  in Government. Nineteen eighty-four was not turning out to be a good year
  for the Conservatives, and Raymond was already forming plans to make 1985
  as uncomfortable for the Government as possible.

  The winter of 1985 brought further rises in unemployment and the level
  of inflation, which only increased the Labour Party's lead in the polls.
  For a short period after the Chancellor had brought in an emergency
  budget, Tory popularity fell to its lowest point in five years.
  Mrs. Thatcher took that as a cue to introduce new blood into her Cabinet,
  and announced the names of those who would be formulating policy in the
  run-up to the next General Election. The average age of the Cabinet fell
  by seven years, and the press dubbed it "Mrs. Thatcher's
  new-lamps-for-old reshuffle."

               332
     PART FIVE

The
Conservative
Cabinet

 1985-1988
              27

 RAYMOND WAS ON HIS WAY to the House of Commons when he heard the first
 reports on his car radio. There had been no mention of the news in the
 morning papers so it must have happened during the night. It began with a
 news flash-just the bare details. HMS Broadsword, a type T.K. 22 frigate,
 had been passing through the Gulf of Surt between Tunis and Benghazi when
 she was boarded by a group of mercenaries, posing as coast guard officials,
 who took over the ship in the name of Libya's Colonel Muammar Qaddafi. The
 newscaster went on to say that there would be a more detailed report in
 their ten o'clock bulletin.
  Staying near a radio most of the morning, Raymond learned that HMS
  Broadsword was now in the hands of over a hundred guerrillas. They were
  demanding the freedom of all Libyan prisoners in British jails in exchange
  for the two hundred and seventeen-strong crew of the Broadsword, who were
  being held hostage in the engine room.
  By lunch time the ticker-tape machine in the members' corridor was
  surrounded by members with craning

               335
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 necks, and the dining rooms were so full that many of them had to go without
 lunch.
  The Palace of Westminster was already packed and buzzing with each new
  snippet of information. Political correspondents waited hawklike in the
  members' lobby seeking opinions on the crisis from any senior politicians
  as they passed to and from the chamber. Few were rash enough to say
  anything that might be reinterpreted the next day.
  At three twenty-seven the Prime Minister, followed by the Foreign Secretary
  and the Secretary of State for Defense, filed into the House and took her
  place on the front bench. All three looked suitably somber.
 At three-thirty the Speaker rose and called for order.
  "Statements to the House," he announced in his crisp, military style.
  "There will be two statements on HMS Broadsword before the House debates
  Welsh affairs." The Speaker then called the Secretary of State for Defense.
  Simon Kerslake rose ftorn the ftont bench and placed a prepared statement
  on the dispatch box in front of him.
  "Mr. Speaker, with your permission and that of the House, I would like to
  make a statement concerning Her Majesty's frigate Broadsword. At
  seven-forty GMT this morning, HMS Broadsword was passing through the Gulf
  of Surt between Tunis and Benghazi when a group of guerrillas, posing as
  official coast guards, boarded the ship and seized her captain, Commander
  Lawrence Packard, and placed the crew under arrest. The guerriflas,
  claiming to represent the Libyan Peoples Army, have since placed Commander
  Packard and the crew in the engine room of the ship. As far as it is
  possible to ascertain from our Embassy in Tripoli, no lives have been lost.
  There is no suggestion that Broadsword was other than going about her
  lawful business. This barbaric act must be looked upon as piracy under the
  1958 336
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Geneva Convention on the High Seas. The guerrillas are demanding the release
 of all Libyan prisoners in British prisons in exchange for the return of HMS
 Broadsword and her crew. My Right Honorable friend, the Home Secretary,
 informs me there are only four known Libyans in British prisons at the
 present time, two of whom have been sentenced to three months for persistent
 shoplifting, while the other two were convicted on more serious drug
 charges. Her Majesty's Government cannot and will not interfere with the due
 process of law and has no intention of releasing these men."
  Loud "Hear, hears" came from all sections of the House.
  "My Right Honorable friend, the Foreign Secretary, has made Her Majesty's
  Government's position clear to the Libyan Ambassador, in particular that
  Her Majesty's Government cannot be expected to tolerate this sort of
  treatment of British subjects or of British property. We have demanded and
  expect immediate action from the Libyan government.,,
  Simon sat down to loud and prolonged cheers before Raymond Gould rose from
  his place. The House went silent as everyone wanted to discover what the
  Labour Party line would be.
  "Mr. Speaker," began Raymond, "we in the Labour Party also look upon this
  barbaric act as one of piracy on the high seas. But can I ask the Secretary
  for Defense if he has any plans at this early stage for the recovery of
  Broadsword?"
  Simon rose again. "We are, Mr. Speaker, at present seeking a diplomatic
  solution, but I have already chaired a meeting of the Joint Chiefs, and I
  anticipate making a further statement to the House tomorrow."
  Raymond rose again from his place on the front bench. "But can the Right
  Honorable Gentleman tell the House how long he will allow negotiations to
  continue when it is well known throughout the diplomatic

               337
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 world that Qaddaft is a master of procrastination, especially if we are to
 rely on the United Nations to adjudicate on this issue?" From the noise that
 greeted Raymond's inquiry, it seemed that his views were shared by the
 majority of the House.
  Simon rose to answer the question. "I accept the point the Honorable
  Gentleman is making, but he will know, having been a Minister in the last
  Government himself, that I am not in a position to divulge any information
  which might imperil the safety of Broadsword.- Raymond nodded his
  acquiescence.
  Question after question came at Simon. He handled them with such confidence
  that visitors in the Strangers' Gallery would have found it hard to believe
  that he had been invited to join the Cabinet only five weeks before.
  At four-fifteen, after Simon had answered the last question the Speaker was
  going to allow, he sank back on the front bench to listen to the statement
  from the Foreign Office. The House fell silent once again as the Foreign
  Secretary rose from his place and checked the large double-spaced sheets in
  front of him. All eyes were now on the tall, elegant man who was making his
  first official statement since his appointment.
  "Mr. Speaker, with your permission and that of the House, I too would like
  to make a statement concerning HMS Broadsword. Once news had reached the
  Foreign Office this morning of the plight of Her Majesty's ship Broadsword,
  my office immediately issued a strongly worded statement to the government
  of Libya. The Libyan ambassador has been called to the Foreign Office and
  I shall be seeing him again immediately after this statement and the
  questions arising from it have been completed."
  Raymond looked up at the Strangers' Gallery from his place on the
  Opposition front bench. It was one of the ironies of modem diplomacy that
  the Libyan ambassador was in Parliament making notes while the For338
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 eign Secretary delivered his statement. He couldn't imagine Colonel
 Qaddafi inviting the British ambassador to take notes while he sat in his
 tent addressing his followers. Raymond was pleased to see an attendant ask
 the ambassador to stop writing; the prohibition dated from the time when
 the House had jealously guarded its secrecy. Raymond's eyes dropped back
 to the front bench, and he continued to listen to Charles Hampton.
  "Our ambassador to the United Nations has presented a resolution to be
  debated by the General Assembly this afternoon, asking representatives
  to back Britain against this flagrant violation of the 1958 Geneva
  Convention on the High Seas. I confidently expect the support of the free
  world. Her Majesty's Government will do everything in its power to insure
  a diplomatic solution, bearing in mind that the lives of two hundred and
  seventeen British servicemen are still at risk."
  The Shadow Foreign Secretary rose and asked at what point the Foreign
  Secretary would consider once again breaking off diplomatic relations
  with Libya.
  "I naturally hope it will not come to that, Mr. Speaker, and I expect the
  Libyan government to deal quickly with their own mercenaries." Charles
  continued to answer questions from all sections of the House but could
  only repeat that there was little new intelligence to offer the House at
  the present time.
  Raymond watched his two contemporaries as they displayed over twenty
  years of parliamentary skill in presenting their case. He wondered if
  this episode would make one of them Mrs. Thatcher's obvious successor.
  At four-thirty the Speaker, realizing nothing new had been said for some
  time, announced that he would allow one further question from each side
  before returning to the business of the day. He shrewdly called Alec
  Pimkin, who sounded to Raymond like "the very model of a modem
  major-general," and then Tom Carson, who

               339
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 suggested that Colonel Qaddafi was often misrepresented by the British
 press. Once Carson had sat down, the Speaker found it easy to move on to
 other business.
  The Speaker rose again and thanked the Honorable Gentleman, the member
  for Leeds North, for his courtesy in informing him that he would be
  making an application under Standing Order Number 10 for an emergency
  debate. The Speaker said he had given the matter careful thought but he
  reminded the House that, under the terms of the Standing Order, he did
  not need to divulge the reasons for his decision-merely whether the
  matter should have precedence over the orders of the day. He ruled that
  the matter was not proper for discussion within the terms of Standing
  Order Number 10.
  Raymond rose to protest, but as the Speaker remained standing, he had to
  resume his seat.
  "This does not mean, however," continued the Speaker, "that I would not
  reconsider such a request at a later date."
  Raymond realized that Charles Hampton and Simon Kerslake must have
  pleaded for more time, but he was only going to allow them twenty-four
  hours. The clerkat-the-table rose and bellowed above the noise of members
  leaving the chamber, "Adjournment." The Speaker called the Secretary of
  State for Wales to move the adjournment motion on the problems facing the
  Welsh mining industry. The chamber emptied of all but the thirty-eight
  Welsh MPs who had been waiting weeks for a full debate on the
  principality's affairs.
  Simon made his way back to the Ministry of Defense to continue
  discussions with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, while Charles was driven
  immediately to the Foreign Office.
  When Charles reached his office, he was told by the Permanent Under
  Secretary that the Libyan ambassador awaited him.

               340
         FIRS,r AMONG EQUALS

  "Does he have anything new to tell us?" asked Charles.
 "Frankly, nothing."
 "Send him in."
  Charles stubbed out his cigarette and stood by the mantelpiece below a
  portrait of Palmerston. Having taken over at the Foreign Office only five
  weeks previously, Charles had never met the ambassador before.
  Mr. Kadir, the dark-haired immaculately dressed five-foot-one ambassador
  for Libya entered the room.
  "Foreign Secretary?" began Mr. Kadir. Charles was momentarily taken aback
  when he noticed the ambassador's Etonian tie. He recovered quickly.
  "Her Majesty's Government wishes to make it abundantly clear to your
  government," began Charles, not allowing the ambassador to continue,
  "that we consider the act of boarding and holding Her Majesty's ship
  Broadsword against her will as one of piracy on the high seas."
 "May I say-T' began Mr. Kadir again.
  "No, you may not," said Charles. "And until our ship has been released,
  we shall do everything in our power to bring pressure, both diplomatic
  and economic, on your government."
 "But may I just say--T' Mr. Kadir tried again.
  "My Prime Minister also wants you to know that she wishes to speak to
  your Head of State at the soonest possible opportunity, so I shall expect
  to hear back from you within the hour."
 "Yes, Foreign Secretary, but may I-T'
  "And you may further report that we will reserve our right to take any
  action we deem appropriate if you fail to secure the release into safe
  custody of HMS Broadsword and tier crew by twelve noon tomorrow, GMT. Do
  I make myself clear?"
 "Yes, Foreign Secretary, but I would like to ask---2'

               341
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "Good day, Mr. Kadir."
  After the Libyan ambassador was shown out, Charles couldn't help
  wondering what it was he had wanted to say.
  "What do we do now?" he asked when the Permanent Under Secretary
  returned, having deposited Mr. Kadir in the elevator.
 "We act out the oldest diplomatic game in the world."
 "What do you mean?" said Charles.
  "Our sit-and-wait policy. We're awfully good at it," said the Permanent
  Under Secretary, "but then we've been at it for nearly a thousand years."
  "Well, while we sit let's at least make some phone calls. I'll start with
  Secretary of State Kirkpatrick in Washington and then I'd like to speak
  to Gromyko in Moscow."

  When Simon arrived back at the Ministry of Defense from the C ommons he
  was told that the Joint Chiefs were assembled in his office waiting for
  him to chair the next strategy meeting. As he entered the room to take
  his place at the table, the Joint Chiefs rose.
  "Good afternoon, gentlemen," Simon said. "Please be seated. Can you bring
  me up to date on the latest situation, Sir John?"
  Admiral Sir John Fieldhouse, Chief of the Defense staff, pushed up the
  half-moon glasses from the end of his nose and checked the notes in front
  of him.
  "Very little has changed in the last hour, sir," he began. "The Prime
  Minister's office has still had no success in contacting Colonel Qaddafi.
  I fear we must now treat the capture of Broadsword as a blatant act of
  terrorism, rather similar to the occupation seven years ago of the
  American Embassy in Iran by students who backed the late Ayatollah
  Khomeini. In such circumstances we can either 'jaw-jaw or war-war,' to
  quote Sir Winston. With that in mind, this committee will have

               342
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 formed a detailed plan by the early evening for the recapture of HMS
 Broadsword, as we assume the Foreign Office is better qualified to prepare
 for jaw-jaw." Sir John looked toward his Minister.
  "Are you in a position to give me a provisional plan that I could place
  in front of the Cabinet for their consideration?"
  "Certainly, Minister," said Sir John, pushing up his glasses again before
  opening a large blue file in front of him.
  Simon listened intently as Sir John went over his provisional strategy.
  Around the table sat eight of the senior-ranking staff officers of the
  army, the navy and the air force, and even the first draft plan bore the
  stamp of their three hundred years of military experience. Simon couldn't
  help remembering that his call-up status was still that of a 2nd
  Lieutenant. For an hour he asked the Joint Chiefs questions that ranged
  from the elementary to those that demonstrated a clear insight into their
  problems. When Simon left the room to attend the Cabinet meeting at
  Number 10, the Joint Chiefs were already updating the plan.
  Simon walked slowly across Whitehall from the Department of Defense to
  Downing Street, his private detective by his side. Downing Street was
  thronged with people curious to see the comings and goings of Ministers
  involved in the crisis. Simon was touched that the crowd applauded him
  all the way to the front door of Number 10, where thejournalists and TV
  crews awaited each arrival. The great television arc fights were switched
  on as he reached the door, and a microphone was thrust in front of him,
  but he made no comment. Simon was surprised by how many of the normally
  cynical journalists called out, "Good luck," and "Bring our boys home."
  The front door opened and he went straight through to the corridor
  outside the Cabinet room, where twenty343
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 two of his colleagues were already waiting. A moment later, the Prime
 Minister walked into the Cabinet room and took her seat in the center of
 the table, with Charles and Simon opposite her.
  Mrs. Thatcher began by telling her colleagues that she had been unable
  to make any contact with Colonel Qaddafi and that they must therefore
  decide on a course of action that did not involve his acquiescence. She
  invited the Foreign Secretary to brief the Cabinet first.
  Charles went over the actions in which the Foreign Office was involved
  at the diplomatic level. He reported his meeting with Ambassador Kadir,
  and the resolution which had been proposed at the UN and which was al-
  ready being debated at an emergency session of the General Assembly. The
  purpose of asking the United Nations to back Britain on Resolution 12/40,
  he said, was to capture the diplomatic initiative and virtually guarantee
  international sympathy. Charles went on to tell the Cabinet that he
  expected a vote to take place in the General Assembly that evening which
  would demonstrate overwhelming support for the United Kingdom's
  resolution and which would be regarded as a moral victory by the whole
  world. He was delighted to be able to report to the Cabinet that the
  foreign ministers of both the United States and Russia had agreed to back
  the UK in her diplomatic endeavors as long as she launched no retaliatory
  action. Charles ended by reminding his colleagues of the importance of
  treating the whole affair as an act of piracy rather than as an injury
  at the hands of the Libyan government itself.
  A legal nicety, thought Simon as he watched the faces of his colleagues
  around the table. They were obviously impressed that Charles had brought
  the two superpowers together in support of Britain. The Prime Minister's
  face remained inscnitable. She called upon Simon to air his views.
He was able to report that Broadsword had, since the 344
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 last meeting of the Cabinet, been towed into the Bay of Surt and moored,
 there was no hope of boarding her except by sea. Commander Packard and his
 crew of two hundred and seventeen remained under close arrest in the engine
 room on the lower deck of the ship. From confirmed reports Simon had
 received in the last hour, it appeared that the ship's company were bound
 and gagged, and that the ventilation systems had been turned off. "I
 therefore suggest," said Simon, "that we have no choice but to mount a
 rescue operation in order to avoid a protracted negotiation that can only
 end in grave loss of morale for the entire armed forces. The longer we put
 off such a decision, the harder our task will become. The Joint Chiefs are
 putting the final touches to a plan code-named 'Shoplifter,' which they feel
 must be carried out in the next forty-eight hours if the men and the ship
 are to be saved." Simon added that he hoped diplomatic channels would be
 kept open while the operation was being worked out, in order that out rescue
 team could be assured of the greatest element of surprise.
  "But what if your plan fails?" interrupted Charles. "We would risk losing
  not only Broadsword and her crew but also the good will of the free world."
  "There is no serving officer in the British navy who will thank us for
  leaving Broadsword in Libyan waters while we negotiate a settlement in
  which, at best, our ship will be returned when it suits the guerrillas-to
  say nothing of the humiliation of our navy. Qaddafi can laugh at the United
  Nations while he has captured not only one of our most modem frigates but
  also the headfines of the world press. Unlike the St. James's Square siege,
  he has the initiative this time. These headlines can only demoralize our
  countrymen and invite the sort of election defeat Carter suffered at the
  hands of the American people after the Iranian Embassy debacle."
"We would be foolish to take such an unnecessary 345
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 risk while we have world opinion on our side," protested Charles. "Let us
 at least wait a few more days."
  "I fear that if we wait," said Simon, "the crew will be transferred from
  the ship to a military prison, which would only result in our having two
  targets to concentrate on, and then Qaddafi can sit around in the desert
  taking whatever amount of time suits him."
  Simon and Charles weighed argument against counterargument while the
  Prime Minister listened, taking note of the views of her other colleagues
  around the table to see if she had a majority for one course or the
  other. Three hours later, when everyone had given his opinion, she had
  "14-9" written on the pad in front of her.
  "I think we have exhausted the arguments, gentlemen," she said, "and
  having listened to the collective views around this table I feel we must
  on balance allow the Secretary of State for Defense to proceed with 'Op-
  eration Shoplifter.' I therefore propose that the Foreign Secretary, the
  Defense Secretary, the Attorney General and myself make up a
  subcommittee, backed up by a professional staff, to consider the Joint
  Chiefs' plan. The utmost secrecy will be required from us at all times,
  so the subject will not be raised again until the plan is ready for
  presentation to a full meeting of the Cabinet. Therefore, with the
  exception of the subcommittee, all Ministers will return to their
  departments and carry on with their normal duties. We must not lose sight
  of the fact that the country still has to be governed. Thank you,
  gentlemen." The Prime Minister asked Charles and Simon to join her in the
  study.
  As soon as the door was closed she said to Charles, "Please let me know
  the moment you hear the results of the vote in the General Assembly. Now
  that the Cabinet has favored a military initiative, it is important that
  you are seen to be pressing for a diplomatic solution."
"Yes, Prime Minister," said Charles without emotion. 346
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Mrs. Thatcher then turned to Simon. "When can I have a rundown on the
  details of the Joint Chiefs, plan?"
  "We anticipate working on the strategy through the night, Prime Minister,
  and I should be able to make a full presentation to you by ten tomorrow."
  "No later, Simon," said the Prime Minister. "Now our next problem is
  tomorrow's proposed emergency debate. Raymond Gould will undoubtedly put in
  a second request for a full debate under Standing Order Number Ten, and the
  Speaker gave the House a clear hint today that he will allow it. Anyway, we
  can't avoid making a policy statement without an outcry from the Opposition
  benches~-and I suspect our own-so I have decided that we will grasp the
  nettle and no doubt get stung."
  The two men looked at each other, united for a moment in exasperation at
  the thought of having to waste precious hours in the Commons.
  "Charles, you must be prepared to open the debate for the Government, and
  Simon, you will wind up. At least the debate will be on Thursday afternoon;
  that way some of our colleagues may have gone home for the weekend, though
  frankly I doubt it. But with any luck we will have secured a moral victory
  at the United Nations, and we can keep the Opposition minds concentrating
  on that. When you sum up, Simon, just answer the questions put during the
  debate. Do not offer any new initiative." She then added, "Report any news
  you hear directly to me. I shan't be sleeping tonight."
  Charles walked back to the Foreign Office, thankful at least that Amanda
  was off somewhere in South America.
  Simon returned to the Joint Chiefs to find a large map of Libyan
  territorial waters pinned to a blackboard. Generals, admirals and air
  marshals were studying the contours and ocean depths like so many children
  preparing for a geography test.

               347
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  They all stood again when Simon entered the room. They looked at him in
  anticipation, men of action who were suspicious of talk. When Simon told
  them the Cabinet's decision was to back the Ministry of Defense, the
  suggestion of a smile came over the face of Sir John. "Perhaps that battle
  will turn out to be our hardest," he said, just loud enough for everyone to
  hear.
  "Take me through the plan again," said Simon, ignoring Sir John's comment.
  "I have to present it to the Prime Minister by ten o'clock tomorrow."
  Sir John placed the tip of a long wooden pointer on a model of HMS
  Broadsword in the middle of a stretch of water in a well-protected bay.

  When Charles reached his office, the international telegrams and telexes of
  support for a diplomatic solution were piled high on his desk. The
  Permanent Under Secretary reported that the debate in the United Nations
  had been so onesided that he anticipated an overwhelming majority when they
  came to vote. Charles feared his hands were tied; he had to be seen to go
  through the motions, even by his own staff, although he had not yet given
  up hopes of undermining Simon's plan. He intended the whole episode to end
  up as a triumph for the Foreign Office and not for those warmongers at the
  Ministry of Defense. After consulting the Permanent Under Secretary,
  Charles appointed a small "Libyan task force" consisting of some older
  Foreign Office mandarins with experience of Qaddafi and four of the
  department's most promising "high fliers."
  Oliver Milas, the former ambassador to Libya, had been dragged out of
  retirement from his comfortable Wilshire home and deposited in a tiny room
  in the upper reaches of the Foreign Office so that Charles could call on
  his knowledge of Libya at any time, day or night, throughout the crisis.
 Charles asked the Permanent Under Secretary to link

               348
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 him up with Britain's ambassador at the United Nations.
 "And keep trying to raise Qaddafi."

  Simon listened to Sir John go over the latest version of Operation
  Shoplifter. Thirty-seven men from the crack Special Boat Service, a branch
  of the SAS regiment which had been involved in the St. James's Square siege
  in April 1984, were now in Rosyth on the Scottish coast, preparing to board
  HMS Brilliant, the sister ship to Broadsword.
  The men were to be dropped from a submarine a mile outside Rosyth harbor
  and swim the last mile and a half underwater until they reached the ship.
  They would then board Brilliant and expect to recapture her from a mock
  Libyan crew in an estimated twelve minutes. Brilliant would then be sailed
  to a distance of one nautical mile off the Scottish coast. The operation
  was to be completed in sixty minutes. The SBS planned to rehearse the
  procedure on Brilliant three times before first light the following
  morning, when they hoped to have the entire exercise down to the hour.
  Simon had already confirmed the order to send two submarines from the
  Mediterranean full steam in the direction of the Libyan coast. The rest of
  the fleet was to be seen to be conspicuously going about its normal busi-
  ness, while the Foreign Office appeared to be searching for a diplomatic
  solution.
  Simon's request to the Joint Chiefs came as no surprise and was granted
  immediately. He phoned Elizabeth to explain why he wouldn't be home that
  night. An hour later the Secretary of State for Defense was strapped into
  a helicopter and on his way to Rosyth.

  Charles followed the proceedings at the United Nations live in his office.
  At the end of a brief debate a vote was called for. The Secretary General
  announced 147-3 349
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 in Great Britain's favor, with twenty-two abstentions. Charles wondered if
 such an overwhelming vote would be enough to get the Prime Minister to
 change her mind over Kerslake's plan. He checked over the voting list
 carefully. The Russians, along with the Warsaw Pact countries and the
 Americans, had kept their word and voted with the UK. Only Libya, South
 Yemen and Djibouti had voted against. Charles was put through to Downing
 Street and passed on the news. The Prime Minister, although delighted with
 the diplomatic triumph, refused to change course until she had heard from
 Qaddafi. Charles put the phone down and asked his Permanent Under Secretary
 to call Ambassador Kadir to the Foreign Office once more.
  "But it's two o'clock in the morning, Foreign Secretary. 19
  "I am quite aware what time it is but I can see no reason why, while we are
  all awake, he should be having a peaceful night's sleep."

  When Mr. Kadir was shown into the Foreign Office it annoyed Charles to see
  the little man still looking fresh and dapper. It was obvious that he had
  just shaved and put on a clean shirt.
  "You called for me, Foreign Secretary?" asked Mr. Kadir politely, as if he
  had been invited to afternoon tea.
  "Yes," said Charles. "We wished to be certain that you are aware of the
  vote taken at the United Nations an hour ago supporting the United
  Kingdom's Resolution 12/40.9'
 "Yes, Foreign Secretary."
  "In which your government was condemned by the leaders of ninety percent of
  the people on the globe"---a fact the Permanent Under Secretary had fed to
  Charles a few minutes before Mr. Kadir had arrived.
 "Yes, Foreign Secretary."

               350
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "My Prime Minister is still waiting to hear from your head of state."
 "Yes, Foreign Secretary."
 "Have you yet made contact with Colonel Qaddafi?"
 "No, Foreign Secretary."
  "But you have a direct telephone link to his headquarters."
  "Then you will be only too aware, Foreign Secretary, that I have been
  unable to speak to him," said Mr. Kadir with a wry smile.
  Charles saw the Permanent Under Secretary lower his eyes. "I shall speak to
  you on the hour every hour, Mr. Kadir, but do not press my country's
  hospitality too far. 1)

 "No, Foreign Secretary."
 "Good night, Ambassador," said Charles.
 "Good night, Foreign Secretary.
  Mr. Kadir turned and left the Foreign Office to be driven back to his
  embassy. He cursed the Right Honorable Charles Hampton. Didn't the man
  realize that he hadn't been back to Libya, except to visit his mother,
  since the age of four? Colonel Qaddafi was ignoring his ambassador every
  bit as much as he was the British Prime Minister. He checked his watch: it
  read 2:44.

  Simon's helicopter landed in Scotland at two fortyfive. He and Sir John
  were immediately driven to the dockside and then ferried out to HMS
  Brilliant through the misty night.
  "The first Secretary of State not to be piped on board in living memory,"
  said Sir John as Simon made his way with difficulty, his blackthorn stick
  tapping on the gangplank. The captain of the Brilliant couldn't disguise
  his surprise when he saw his uninvited guests, and he escorted them quickly
  to the bridge. Sir John whispered something in the captain's ear which
  Simon missed.

               351
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "When is the next raid due?" asked Simon, staring out from the bridge but
  unable to see more than a few yards in front of him.
  "They leave the sub at three hundred hours," said the captain, "and
  should reach Brilliant at approximately three-twenty. They hope to have
  taken command of the ship in eleven minutes and be a mile beyond
  territorial waters in under the hour."
  Simon checked his watch: it was five to three. He thought of the SBS
  preparing for their task, unaware that the Secretary of State and the
  Chief of the Defense Staff were on board Brilliant waiting for them. He
  pulled his coat collar up. Suddenly, he was thrown to the deck, a black
  and oily hand clamped over his mouth before he could protest. He felt his
  arms whipped up and tied behind his back as his eyes were blindfolded and
  he was gagged. He tried to retaliate and received a sharp elbow in the
  ribs. Then he was dragged down a narrow staircase and dumped on a wooden
  floor. He lay trussed up like a chicken for what he thought was about ten
  minutes before he heard the ship's engines revving up and felt the
  movement of the ship below him. The Secretary of State could not move for
  another fifteen minutes.
  "Release them," Simon heard a voice say in distinctly Oxford English. The
  rope around his arms was untied and the blindfold and gag removed.
  Standing over the Secretary of State was an SBS frogman, black from head
  to toe, his white teeth gleaming in a wide grin. Simon was still slightly
  stunned as he turned to see the commander of Her Majesty's forces also
  being untied.
  "I must apologize, Minister," said Sir John, as soon as his gag was
  removed, "but I told the captain not to inform the submarine commander
  we were on board. If I am going to risk two hundred and seventeen of my
  men's lives, I wanted to be sure this rabble from the SBS knew what they
  were up to." Simon backed away from

               352
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the six foot two giant who towered over him still grinning,
  "Good thing we didn't bring the Prime Minister along for the ride," said
  Sir John.
  "I agree," said Simon, looking up at the SBS commando. "She would have
  broken his neck." Everyone laughed except the frogman, who pursed his
  lips.
 "What's wrong with him?" said Simon.
  "If he utters the slightest sound during these sixty minutes, he won't
  be selected for the final team."
  "The Conservative Party could do with some backbench members of
  Parliament like that," said Simon. "Especially when I have to address the
  House tomorrow and explain why I'm doing nothing."
  By three forty-five Brilliant was once again beyond territorial waters.

  The newspaper headlines that next morning ranged from "Diplomatic
  Victory" in the Times to "Qaddafi the Pirate" in the Mirror.
  At a meeting of the inner Cabinet held at ten in the morning Simon
  reported his first-hand experience of Operation Shoplifter to the Prime
  Minister.
  Charles was quick to follow him. "But after the overwhelming vote in our
  favor at the UN, it must be sensible for us to postpone anything that
  might be considered as an outright act of aggression."
  "If the SBS doesn't go tomorrow morning, we will never have as good a
  chance, Prime Minister," said Simon, interrupting him.
  All eyes at the meeting of the inner Cabinet turned to Kerslake.
 "WhY9" asked Mrs. Thatcher.
  "Because Ramadan comes to an end today, and tomorrow the Moslems break
  their daylight fasts. Traditionally it's a heavy feasting-day, which
  means

               353
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 tomorrow will be our best chance to catch the guerrillas off guard. I have
 been over the entire operation in Rosyth and by now the SBS are well on
 their way to the submarines and preparing for the assault. It's all so
 finely tuned, Prime Minister, that I obviously don't want to throw away
 such a good opportunity."
  "That's good reasoning," she concurred. "With the weekend ahead of us we
  must pray that this mess will be all over by Monday morning. Let's put
  on our negotiating faces for the Commons this afternoon. I expect a very
  convincing performance from you, Charles."

  When Raymond rose at three-thirty that Thursday afternoon to ask a second
  time for an emergency debate, the Speaker granted his request, directing
  that the urgency of the matter warranted the debate to commence at seven
  o'clock that evening.
  The chamber emptied quickly as the members scuttled off to prepare their
  speeches, although they all knew that less than 2 percent of them could
  hope to be called. The Speaker departed the chamber and did not return
  until five to seven when he took over the chair from his deputy.
  By seven o'clock, when Charles and Simon had entered the House, all
  thirty-seven SBS men were aboard Her Majesty's submarine Conqueror, lying
  on the ocean bed about sixty nautical miles off the Libyan coast. A
  second submarine, Courageous, was ten miles to the rear of her. Neither
  had broken radio silence for the past twelve hours.
  The Prime Minister had still not heard from Colonel Qaddafi and they were
  now only eight hours away from Operation Shoplifter. Simon looked around
  the House. The atmosphere resembled budget day, and an eerie silence fell
  as the Speaker called on Raymond Gould to address the House.
Raymond began by explaining, under Standing Order 354
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Number 10, why the matter he had raised was specific, important and needed
 urgent consideration. He quickly moved on to demand that the Foreign
 Secretary confirm that if negotiations with Qaddafi failed or dragged on,
 the Secretary of State for Defense would not hesitate to take the necessary
 action to recover HMS Broadsword. Simon sat on the front bench looking glum
 and shaking his head.
  "Qaddafi's nothing more than a pirate," said Raymond. "Why talk of
  diplomatic solutions?"
  The House cheered as each well-rehearsed phrase rolled off Raymond's
  tongue. Simon listened intently, privately agreeing with his sentiments and
  knew that, had their roles been reversed, it would have been no different.
  When Raymond sat down, the cheers came from all parts of the chamber and it
  was several minutes before the Speaker could bring the House back to order.
  Mr. Kadir sat in the Distinguished Strangers' Gallery staring impassively
  down, trying to memorize the salient points that had been made and the
  House's reaction to them, so that-if he were ever given the chance-he could
  pass them on to Colonel Qaddafi.
  "The Foreign Secretary," called the Speaker, and Charles rose from his
  place on the Treasury bench. He placed his speech on the dispatch box in
  front of him and waited. Once again the House fell silent.
  Charles opened his case by emphasizing the significance of the United
  Nations vote as the foundation for a genuine negotiated settlement. He went
  on to say that his first priority was to secure the lives of the two hun-
  dred seventeen men on board HMS Broadsword, and that he intended to work
  tirelessly to that end. The Secretary General was hoping to contact Qaddafi
  personally and brief him on the strong feelings of his colleagues in the
  General Assembly. Charles stressed that taking any other course at the
  present time could

               355
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 only lose the support and good will of the free world. When Charles sat
 down, he realized that the rowdy House was not convinced.
  The contribution from the back benches confirmed the Prime Minister's and
  Simon's belief that they had gauged the feelings of the nation correctly,
  but neither of them allowed the slightest show of emotion to cross their
  faces and give hope to those who were demanding military action.
  By the time Simon rose to wind up for the Government at nine-thirty that
  night, he had spent two and a half hours in the chamber listening to men
  and women tell him to get on with exactly what he was already doing.
  Blandly he backed the Foreign Secretary in his pursuit of a diplomatic
  solution. The House became restive, and when the clock reached ten, Simon
  sat down to cries of "Resign" from some of his own colleagues and the more
  right wing of the Labour benches.
  Raymond watched carefully as Kerslake and Hampton left the chamber. He
  wondered what was really going on behind the closed door of Number 10 Dow
  i g Street.
  When Raymond arrived home after the debate, Joyce congratulated him on his
  speech and added, "But it didn't evoke much of a response from Simon
  Kerslake."
  "He's up to something," said Raymond. "I only wish I was sitting in his
  office tonight and could find out what it is."
  When Simon arrived back in his office he phoned Elizabeth and explained
  that he would be spending another night at the Ministry of Defense.
  "Some women do lose their men to the strangest mistresses," said Elizabeth.
  "By the way, your daughter wants to know if you will have time to watch her
  play field hockey in her intramural final on Saturday."
 "What's today?"

               356
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "It's still Thursday," she said, "and to think you're the one in charge
  of the nation's defenses."
  Simon knew the rescue attempt would be all over one way or the other by
  lunchtime the next day. Why shouldn't he watch his daughter play in a
  field hockey match?
 "Tell Lucy I'll be there," he said.

  Although nothing could be achieved between midnight and six o'clock now
  that the submarines were in place, none of the Joint Chiefs left the
  operations room. Radio silence was not broken once through the night as
  Simon tried to occupy himself with the bulging red boxes containing other
  pressing matters which still demanded his attention. He took advantage
  of the presence of the Joint Chiefs and had a hundred queries answered
  in minutes that would normally have taken him a month.
  At midnight the first editions of the morning papers were brought to him.
  Simon pinned up the Telegraph's headline on the operations board.
  "Kerslake's in His Hammock Till the (ireat Armada Comes." The article
  demanded to know how the hero of Northern Ireland could be so indecisive
  while Britain's sailors lay bound and gagged in foreign waters, and ended
  with the words "Captain, art thou sleeping there below?" "Not a wink,"
  said Simon. "Resign" was the single-word headline of the Daily Express.
  Sir John looked over the Minister's shoulder and read the opening
  paragraph.
  "I shall never understand why anyone wants to be a politician," he said,
  before reporting: "We have just heard from reconnaissance in the area
  that both submarines Conqueror and Courageous have moved up into place."
  Simon picked up the blackthorn stick from the side of his desk and left
  the Joint Chiefs to go over to Downing

               357
         FIRs-r AMONG EQUALS

 Street. He passed the morning street cleaners on their way to work before
 London woke up and started another day. They shouted "Morning, Simon" and
 "Have You got our ship back yet?"
  ,,Ask me in three hours' time," he wanted to say but only smiled.
  He found the Prime Minister sitting in the Cabinet room in her bathrobe.
  "It's no use, I couldn't sleep," she said. Simon went over the final plan
  with her in great detail, explaining that everything was ready and would
  be over by the time most people were having their breakfasts.
  "Let me know the moment you hear anything-however trivial," she
  concluded, before returning to the latest gloomy study of the economy
  from the Wynne Godley team, who were suggesting that the pound and the
  dollar would be of equal parity by 1990. "One day you may have all these
  problems onyour shoulders," she said.
  Simon smiled and left her to walk slowly back to his office on the other
  side of Whitehall. He stopped to stare at the statue of Montgomery that
  stood on the grass in front of the Ministry of Defense and thought how
  much the Field Marshal would have relished the skirmish that was about
  to take place. A full moon shone like an arc light above Saint Paul's
  Cathedral as he hurried back to his office.
  At one, he joined the Joint Chiefs. None of them looked tired, although
  they had all shared the lonely vigil with their comrades two thousand
  miles away. They told stories of Suez and the Falklands and there was
  frequent laughter. But it was never long before their eyes returned to
  the clock.
  As Big Ben struck one chime, Simon thought: three o'clock in Libya. He
  could visualize the men falling backwards over the side of the boat and
  deep into the

               358
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 water before starting the long, slow swim toward Broadsword.
  Simon returned to his desk for what was to be the longest hour of his life.

  When the phone Yang, breaking the eerie silence like a fire alarm, Simon
  picked it up to hear Charles Hampton's voice.
  "Simon," he began, "I've finally gotten through to Qaddafi and he wants to
  negotiate." Simon looked at his watch; the divers could only be a hundred
  yards from Broadsword.
 "It's too late," he said. "I can't stop them now."
  "Don't be such a bloody fool-order them to turn back. Don't you understand
  we've won a diplomatic coup?"
  "Qaddafi could negotiate for months and still end up humiliating us. No, I
  won't turn back."
  "We shall see how the Prime Minister reacts to your arrogance," said
  Charles and slammed down the phone.
  Simon sat by the phone and waited for it to ring. He wondered if he could
  get away with taking the damn thing off the hook--the modem equivalent of
  Nelson placing the telescope to his blind eye, he considered. He needed a
  few minutes, only a few minutes, but the phone rang again only seconds
  later. He picked it up and heard her unmistakable voice.
 "Can you stop them if I order you to, Simon?"
 He considered lying. "Yes, Prime Minister," he said.
  "But you would still like to carry it through, wouldn't you?"
 "I only need a few minutes, Prime Minister."
  "Do you understand the consequences if you fail, with Charles already
  claiming a diplomatic victory?"
 "You would have my resignation within the hour."
 "I suspect mine would have to go with it," said Mrs.

               359
         FlRs~r AMONG EQUALS

 Thatcher. "In which case Charles would undoubtedly be Prime Minister by
 this time tomorrow."
  There was a moment's pause before she continued, "Qaddafi is on the other
  line, and I am going to tell him that I am willing to negotiate." Simon
  felt defeated. "Perhaps that will give you enough time, and let's hope
  it's Qaddafi who has to worry about resignations at breakfast."
 Simon nearly cheered.
  "Do you know the hardest thing I have had to do in this entire
  operation?"
 "No, Prime Minister."
  "When Qaddafi rang in the middle of the night, I had to pretend to be
  asleep so that he didn't realize I was sitting by the phone."
 Simon laughed.
  "Good luck, Simon, I'll phone and explain my decision to Charles."
 The clock said 2:30.
  On his return the admirals were variously clenching their fists, tapping
  the table or walking around, and Simon began to sense what the Israelis
  must have been feeling as they waited for news from Entebbe.
  The phone rang again. He knew it couldn't be the Prime Minister this
  time, as she was the one woman in England who never changed her mind. It
  was Charles Hampton.
  "I want it clearly understood, Simon, that I gave you the news concerning
  Qaddafi's desire to negotiate at two-twenty. That is on the record, so
  there will be only one Minister handing in his resignation later this
  morning-"
  "I know exactly where you stand, Charles, and I feel confident that
  whatever happens you'll come through your own mound of manure smelling
  of roses," said Simon, slamming down the phone as three o'clock struck.
  For no fathomable reason everyone in the room

               360
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 stood up, but as the minutes passed they sat back down again one by one.
  At seven minutes past four radio silence was broken with the five words,
  "Shoplifter apprehended, repeat Shoplifter apprehended."
  Simon watched the Joint Chiefs cheer like schoolchildren reacting to the
  winning goal at a football game. Broadsword was on the high seas in
  neutral waters. He sat down at his desk and asked to be put through to
  Number 10. The Prime Minister came on the line. "Shoplifter apprehended,"
  he told her.
  "Congratulations, continue as agreed," was all she said.
  The next move was to be sure that all the Libyan prisoners who had been
  taken aboard Broadsword would be discharged at Malta and sent home
  unharmed. Simon waited impatiently for radio silence to be broken again,
  as agreed, at five o'clock.
  Commander Lawrence Packard came on the fine as Big Ben struck five. He
  gave Simon a full report on the operation. One Libyan guerrilla had been
  killed and eleven injured. There had been no, repeat, no, British deaths
  and only a few minor injuries. The thirty-seven SBS men were back on
  board the submarines Conqueror and Courageous. HMS Broads-word was
  sailing the high seas on her way home. God Save the Queen.
  Simon congratulated the commander and returned to Downing Street. As he
  limped up the street, journalists with no idea of the news that was about
  to be announced were already gathering outside Number 10. Once again
  Simon answered none of their shouted questions. When he was shown into
  the Cabinet room, he found Charles already there with the Prime Minister.
  He told them both the latest news. Charles's congratulations sounded
  insincere.
  It was agreed that the Prime Minister would make a statement at seven
  o'clock. The draft was prepared and 361
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 revised before Mrs. Thatcher stepped out onto Downing Street to give the
 waiting press the salient details of what had happened during the previous
 six hours.
  Television arc lights were switched on and cameras flashed for several
  minutes before Mrs. Thatcher was able to speak. As she read her
  statement, Charles Hampton stood on her right and Simon Kerslake on her
  left, now the undisputed contenders as her successor.

  "I must admit that my opinion of Charles Hampton has gone up," said
  Elizabeth in the car on the way to Lucy's field hockey match.
 "What do you mean?" asked Simon.
  "Hes just been interviewed on television. He said he had backed your
  judgment all along while having to pretend to carry out pointless
  negotiations. He had a very good line to the effect that it was the first
  time in his life that he had felt honorable about lying."
  Elizabeth didn't understand her husband's response. "Smelling like
  roses," he said sharply.

  It amused Simon to watch his daughter massacred in the mud while he stood
  on the sidelines in the rain only hours after he had feared Qaddafi might
  have done the same to him. "It's a walkover," he told the headmistress
  when Lucy's team was down by four goals at halftime.
  "Perhaps she'll be like you and surprise us all in the second half,"
  replied the headmistress.

  At eight o'clock on the following Saturday morning Simon sat in his
  office and heard the news that Broadsword had all engines on full speed
  and was expected to reach Portsmouth by three o'clock--exactly one week
  after his daughter had lost her match 0-8. They hadn't had a good second
  half. Simon had tried to console the

               362
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 downcast Lucy, and might even have succeeded if she hadn't been the
 goalie.
  He was smiling when his secretary interrupted his thoughts to remind him
  that he was due at Portsmouth in an hour. As Simon reached the door, his
  phone rang. "Explain to whoever it is I'm already late," he said.
 His secretary replied, "I don't think I can, sir."
 Simon turned around, puzzled.
 "Who is it?" he asked.
 "Her Majesty the Queen."
  Simon returned to his desk, picked up the receiver and listened to the
  sovereign. When she had finished Simon thanked her and said he would pass
  on her message to Commander Packard as soon as he reached Portsmouth.
  During the flight down, Simon looked out of the helicopter and watched
  a traffic jam that stretched from the coast to London with people who
  were going to welcome Broadsword home. The helicopter landed an hour
  later.
  The Secretary of State for Defense stood on the pier and was able to pick
  out the frigate through a pair of binoculars. She was about an hour away
  but was already surrounded by a flotilla of small craft so that it was
  hard to identify her.
  Sir John told him that Commander Packard had signaled to ask if the
  Secretary of State wished to join him on the bridge as they sailed into
  port. "No, thank you," said Simon. "It's his day, not mine."
  "Good thing the Foreign Secretary isn't with us," said Sir John. A squad
  of Tornadoes flew over, drowning Simon's reply. As Broadsword sailed into
  port, the ship's company were all on deck standing to attention in full-
  dress uniform. The ship itself shone like a Rolls-Royce that had just
  come off the production line.
 By the time the captain descended the gangplank a

               363
        FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 crowd of some five hundred thousand were cheering so loudly that Simon
 could not hear himself speak. Commander Packard saluted as the Secretary
 of State leaned forward and whispered the Queen's message in his ear:
  "Welcome home, Rear Admiral Sir Lawrence Packard."

 364
              28

 IT WAS JOYCE who left a clipping from the Standard for him to read when he
 returned from the Commons one night. She had scribbled across it: "This
 could end up on the front page of every national paper."
 Raymond agreed with her.
  Although he spent most of his time on the overall strategy for a future
  Labour government, like all politicians he had pet anomalies that
  particularly upset him. His had always been war widows' pensions, a
  preoccupation that dated back to his living with his grandmother in Leeds.
  He remembered the shock when he first realized, shortly after leaving the
  university, that his grandmother had eked out an existence for thirty years
  on a weekly widow's pension that wouldn't have covered the cost of a decent
  meal in a London restaurant.
  From the back benches he had always pressed for the redeeming ofwar bonds
  and higher pensions for war widows. He even supported veterans' charities
  that worked on their behalf. His weekly mail showed unequivocally j ust how
  maj or a problem war widows' pensions had become. Over all his years in
  Parliament, he had worked doggedly to achieve ever increasing, though

               365
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 small, rises, but be vowed that were he ever to become Secretary of State
 for Defense he would enact something more radical.
  With Joyce's clipping in his hand, he tried to press his view onto a
  reluctant Shadow Cabinet, who seemed more interested in the planned series
  of one-day strikes by the print unions than the case of Mrs. Dora Benson.
  Raymond reread the story carefully and discovered that the case didn't
  differ greatly from the many others he had looked into over the years,
  except for the added ingredient of a Victoria Cross. By any standards, Mrs.
  Dora Benson highlighted Raymond's cause. She was one of the handful of
  surviving widows of the First World War, and her husband, Private Albert
  Benson, had been killed at the Somme while leading an attack on a German
  trench. Nine Germans had been killed before Albert Benson died, which was
  why he had been awarded the Victoria Cross. His widow had worked as a
  chambermaid in the King's Head at Barking for over fifty years. Her only
  possessions of any value were her war bonds; with no redemption date, they
  were still passing hands at only twenty-five pounds each. Mrs. Benson's
  case might have gone unnoticed if in desperation she had not asked
  Sotheby's to auction her husband's medal.
  Once Raymond had armed himself with all the facts, he put down a question
  to the Secretary of State for Defense asking if he would at last honor the
  Government's long-promised pledges in such cases. A sleepy but packed House
  heard Simon Kerslake reply that he was giving the program his consideration
  and hoping to present a report on his findings to the Chancellor in the
  near future. Simon settled back onto the green benches, satisfied that this
  would pacify Gould, but Raymond's supplementary stunned him and woke up the
  House.
  "Does the Right Honorable Gentleman realize that this eighty-three-year-old
  widow, whose husband was killed 366
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 in action and won the Victoria Cross, has a lower income than a
 sixteen-year-old cadet on his first day in the armed forces?"
  Simon rose once more, determined to put a stop to the issue until he had
  had more time to study the details of this particular case. "I was not
  aware of this fact, Mr. Speaker, and I can assure the Right Honorable
  Gentleman that I shall take into consideration all the points he has
  mentioned."
  Simon felt confident the Speaker would now move on to the next question.
  But Raymond rose again, the Opposition benches spurring him on.
  "Is the Right Honorable Gentleman also aware that an admiral, on an
  index-linked income, can hope to end his career with a pension of over five
  hundred pounds a week while Mrs. Dora Benson's weekly income remains fixed
  at forty-seven pounds thirty-two?"
  There was a gasp even from the Conservative benches as Raymond sat down.
  Simon rose again, uncomfortably aware that he was unprepared for Gould's
  attack and must stifle it as quickly as possible. "I was not aware of that
  particular comparison either, but once again, I can assure the Right
  Honorable Gentleman I will give the case my immediate consideration."
  To Simon's horror Raymond rose from the benches for yet a third time. Simon
  could see that Labour members were enjoying the rare spectacle of watching
  him up against the ropes. "Is the Right Honorable Gentleman also aware that
  the annuity for a Victoria Cross is one hundred pounds, with no extra
  pension benefits? We pay our second-string soccer players more, while keep-
  ing Mrs. Benson in the bottom league of the national income bracket."
  Simon looked distinctly harassed when he in turn rose for a fourth time and
  made an uncharacteristic remark that he regretted the moment he said it.

               367
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I take the Right Honorable Gentleman's point," he began, his words
  coming out a little too quickly. "And I am fascinated by his sudden
  interest in Mrs. Benson. Would it be cynical of me to suggest that it has
  been prompted by the wide publicity this case has enjoyed in the national
  press?"
  Raymond made no attempt to answer him but sat motionless with his arms
  folded and his feet up on the table in front of him while his own
  backbenchers screamed their abuse at Simon.
  The national papers the next day were covered with pictures of the
  arthritic Dora Benson with her bucket and mop alongside photos of her
  handsome young husband in private's uniform. Many of the papers went on
  to describe how Albert Benson had won his VC, and some of the tabloids
  used considerable license. But all of them picked up Raymond's point.
  It was an enterprising and unusually thorough journalist from the
  Guardian who led her story on a different angle which the rest of the
  national press had to turn to in their second editions. It became known
  that Raymond Gould had put down forty-seven questions concerning war
  widows' pension rights during his time in the House and had spoken on the
  subject in three budgets and five social-service debates from the back
  benches. When the journalist revealed that Raymond gave five hundred
  pounds a year to the Erskine Hospital for wounded soldiers, every member
  knew that Simon Kerslake would have to retract his personal attack on the
  Shadow spokesman and make an apology to the House.

  At three-thirty the Speaker rose from his chair and told a packed house
  that the Secretary of State for Defense wished to make a statement.
  Simon Kerslake rose humbly from the front bench, and stood nervously at
  the dispatch box.

               368
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Mr. Speaker," he began. "With your permission and that of the House, I
  would like to make a personal statement. During a question put to me
  yesterday I impugned the integrity of the Right Honorable Gentleman, the
  Member for Leeds North. It has since been brought to my attention that
  I did him a gross injustice and I offer the House my sincere apologies
  and the Right Honorable Gentleman the assurance that I will not question
  his integrity a third time."
  While newer members were puzzled by the reference, Raymond understood it
  immediately. Aware of how rare personal statements were in anyone's
  parliamentary career, members looked on eagerly to see how Raymond would
  respond.
 He moved slowly to the dispatch box.
  "Mr. Speaker, I accept the gracious manner in which the Honorable
  Gentleman has apologized and hope that he will not lose sight of the
  greater issue, namely that of war widows' benefits, and in particular the
  plight of Mrs. Dora Benson."
 Simon looked relieved and nodded courteously.
  The following morning, the Times editorial declared: "In an age of
  militant demands from the left, Parliament and the Labour Party have
  found a new Clement Attlee on their front bench. Britain need have no
  fear for human dignity or the rights of man should Raymond Gould ever
  accede to the high office which that gentleman held."
  Many Opposition members told Raymond he should have gone for Simon when
  he was down. Raymond disagreed. It was enough to know that Simon Kerslake
  was fallible.

  The Broadsword factor remained in the memories of the electorate for a
  far shorter time than had the Falklands victory' and within six months
  the Conservative lead in the opinion polls had dropped to only 3 percent.

               369
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "The truth is," noted Raymond at a Shadow Cabinet meeting, "Mrs. Thatcher
  has had nearly eight years at NumberTen, and no Prime Minister has served
  two full terms in succession-let alone three-since Lord Liverpool at 1812."
  Margaret Thatcher cared nothing for Lord Liverpool or historical precedent:
  she called an election the following June-the month that had been a winner
  for her in the past.
  "It's time to let the nation choose who is to govern for the next five
  years," she declared on Panorama.
  "Nothing to do with the fact she has regained a slight lead in the opinion
  polls," said Joyce tartly.
  "A lead that could well disappear during the next few weeks," said Raymond.
  He returned to Yorkshire for only three days of the campaign because, as
  one of the Party's leading spokesmen, he had to dash around the country
  addressing meeting after meeting in marginal seats. Many journalists went
  as far as to suggest that were Raymond leading the Party, they would be in
  a much stronger position to win the election.
  Back in Leeds, however, he enjoyed his electioneering and felt completely
  relaxed with his constituents for the first time in his life. He also felt
  his age when he discovered that the new Tory candidate for Leeds North had
  been born in 1964, the year he had first entered Parhament. When they met,
  the only insult Raymond suffered at his young rival's hands was being
  called "sir."
  "Please call me by my Christian name," said Raymond.
 "Raymond-" began the young man.
 "No, Ray will do just fine."

  The final result of the election did not become clear until four o'clock on
  Friday afternoon. Only a few thousand votes determined the outcome:

               370
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

   CONSERVATIVES          317
   LABOUR                 288
   LIBERAL/SDP ALLIANCE    24
   IRISH                 17
   SPEAKER AND OTHERS       4

  Although Mrs. Thatcher did not have more seats than the other parties put
  together, she still led the largest party in the House and remained at
  Number 10. She made very few changes to her front-bench team, as she
  clearly wished to leave an impression of unity. Charles moved to the Home
  Office, while Simon became Foreign Secretary. The press dubbed it "The
  Cosmetic Cabinet."

  That post-election calm was to last a complete week before Tony Benn roUed
  a thundercloud across the clear blue summer sky by announcing he would
  contest the leadership of the Labour Party at the October conference.
  Benn claimed that Kinnock's naive and gauche approach as Leader had been
  the single reason that the Labour Party had not been returned to power.
  There were many Labourites who agreed with this judgment, but they also
  felt they would have fared considerably worse under Benn.
  What his announcement did, however, was to make respectable the claims of
  any other candidates who wished to run. Roy Hattersley and John Smith
  joined Berm and Kinnock as nominees. Many members of Parliament,
  trade-union leaders and constituency activists pressed Raymond to run for
  the Leadership. Joyce was the most vociferous of all.
  "If you don't run now," she told him, "you'll have no chance in the
  future."
  "It's the future I'm thinking about," replied Raymond.
               371
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 "What do you mean?"
  "I want to run for Deputy Leader. It's still the recognized number two
  spot, and it won't stop me from holding a key Shadow Cabinet post. And,
  most important, it will secure me a power base within the Party, which
  would give me a better chance next time."
  Raymond waited another week before he launched his candidacy. At a packed
  Monday-morning press conference, he announced that the Lorry Union was
  nominating him. Norman Edwards made the motion.
  With four candidates in the field for the Leadership, everyone knew that
  the first ballot would be inconclusive, although most prophets accepted
  that Benn would lead. Kinnock confided to Raymond that if he came in
  lower than second he would advise his supporters to vote for whichever
  of the other moderates looked able to beat Benn in the second ballot.
  The first round went exactly as predicted, with Benn coming in first. The
  second ballot surprised everyone but Raymond. With Kinnock's supporters
  voting for Benn's closest rival, the Party chairman was able to announce
  a few hours later that Tony Benn had been soundly beaten. The Labour
  Party had a new moderate Leader.
  At eleven o'clock that same night the chairman announced that by a mere
  3 percent Raymond Gould had defeated two other candidates to become the
  newly elected Deputy Leader of the Labour Party. The unions had agreed
  to allow their members to vote individually, rather than en bloc, but
  after the vote had been announced, Raymond was pleased to acknowledge a
  wink from Norman Edwards.
  The new Leader immediately appointed Raymond Shadow Chancellor of the
  Exchequer. Among the many letters and telegrams Raymond received was one
  from Mrs. Kate Wilberhoff, which read: "Congratulations.

               372
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 But have you read Standing Order No. 5(4) of the Party Constitution?"
  Raymond hadn't, and replied, "Hadn't. Have now. Let's hope it's an omen."

  After nearly a decade of the lady from Grantham, Raymond sensed the mood
  was for change. In their first twelve months, the new Labour team looked
  fresh and innovative as Mrs. Thatcher began to look tired and out oftouch.
  During the long, cold winter of 1988 the Conservatives lost several votes
  on the floor of the House and many more upstairs in committee. The Prime
  Minister seemed somewhat relieved to find herself spending Christmas at
  Chequers.
  The relief did not last long, as two elderly Conservative members died
  before the House convened in January. The press dubbed the Government the
  "lame drake" administration. Both of the pending by-elections were held in
  May, and the Conservatives fared far better than might have been expected
  in holding on to one seat and just losing the other. For a fourth time,
  Mrs. Thatcher plumped for a June election.
  The monthly unemployment, inflation and import/export figures announced at
  regular intervals during their fourth campaign all augured badly for the
  Conservatives. The Prime Minister's reiterated plea that a government
  shouldn't be judged on one month's figures began to sound unconvincing, and
  by the final week, the only point of contention was whether the Labour
  Party would end up with a large enough majority to govern.
  Raymond collapsed into bed at four when the result was still unclear. He
  was in the middle of a dream when he was abruptly wakened by Joyce's
  screams from the kitchen.

               373
         FIRs'r AMONG EQUALS

 "We've won. We've won."
 He hadn't in his dream.
  Raymond and Joyce toured the constituency that morning before joining
  Raymond's parents for a late lunch. When they left the little butcher shop
  that afternoon, awaiting Raymond on the pavement was a crowd of
  well-wishers who cheered him all the way to his car. Raymond and Joyce
  traveled down to London and were back in Cowley Street in time to watch the
  first Labour Prime Minister since 1979 emerge from Buckingham Palace with
  the television cameras following him all the way back until he took up
  residence at 10 Downing Street.
  This time Raymond did not have long to wait for a telephone call because
  the first appointment the new Prime Minister confirmed was Raymond's, as
  his Chancellor of the Exchequer. Raymond and Joyce moved into Number I I
  later that afternoon, instructing real estate agents to rent their Cowley
  Street house on a shortterm lease. After all, the Labour Party had only won
  by four seats.

  Leaving the Home Office came as a great blow to Charles. He informed Amanda
  over breakfast on the Monday after the election that he would be returning
  to Hampton's Bank and that his salary would be sufficient for her allowance
  to remain constant-as long as she behaved herself Amanda nodded and left
  the breakfast table without comment, as Harry came in.
  It was an important morning for Harry, as he was to be taken to his first
  day of school at Hill House to begin the academic course mapped out for him
  by his father. Though Charles tried to convince him that it would be the
  start of a wonderful adventure, Harry looked apprehensive. Once he had
  deposited a tearful eight-year-old with his first headmaster, Charles
  continued on to the 374
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 City, cheerful at the prospect of returning to the world of banking.
  When he arrived at Hampton's, he was met by Clive Reynolds's secretary, who
  immediately took him through to the boardroom and asked him if he would
  like a coffee.
  "Thank you," said Charles, taking off his gloves, placing his umbrella in
  the stand and settling himself in the chairman's seat at the head of the
  table. "And would you tell Mr. Reynolds I'm in?"
 "Certainly," said the secretary.
 Clive Reynolds joined him a few moments later.
  "Good morning, Mr. Hampton. How nice to see you again after such a long
  time," said Reynolds, shaking Charles by the hand.
  "Good morning, Clive. It's nice to see you too. First I must congratulate
  you on the manner in which you have conducted the bank's affairs in my
  absence."
 "It's kind of you to say so, Mr. Hampton."
  "I was particularly impressed by the Distillers takeover; that certainly
  took the City by surprise."
  "Yes, quite a coup, wasn't it?" said Reynolds smiling. "And there's another
  one in the pipeline."
 "I shall look forward to hearing the details."
  "Well, I'm afraid it remains confidential at the moment," said Clive,
  taking the seat beside him.
  "Of course; but now that I have returned I had better be briefed fairly
  soon."
  'Tm afraid shareholders cannot be briefed until we are certain the deals
  have been concluded. We can't afford any rumors harming our chances, can
  we?"
  "But I'm not an ordinary shareholder," said Charles sharply. "I am
  returning as chairman of the bank."
  "No, Mr. Hampton," said Reynolds quietly. "I am chairman of this bank."
  "Do you realize whom you are addressing?" said Charles.

               375
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Yes, I think so. A former Foreign Secretary, a former Home Secretary, a
  former chairman of the bank and a two percent shareholder."
  "But you are fully aware that the board agreed to have me back as chairman
  when the Conservatives went into Opposition?" Charles reminded him.
  "The composition of the board has changed considerably since those days,"
  said Reynolds. "Perhaps you've been too busy running the rest of the world
  to notice minor comings and goings in Threadneedle Street."
 "I shall call a board meeting."
 "You don't have the authority."
  "Then I shall demand an extraordinary general meeting," said Charles.
  "And tell the shareholders what? That you had a standing order to return as
  chairman when you felt like it? That won't sound like a former Foreign
  Secretary."
  "I'll have you out of this office in twenty-four hours," Charles continued,
  his voice suddenly rising.
  "I don't think so, Mr. Hampton. Miss Trubshaw has completed her five years
  and has left us on a full pension, and it won't take you long to discover
  that I don't possess a Swiss bank account or have a wefl-compensated
  mistress."
  Charles went red in the face. "I'll get you removed. You don't begin to
  understand how far my influence stretches."
  "I hope I'm not removed, for your sake," said Reynolds calmly.
 "Are you threatening me?"
  "CertaiDly not, Mr. Hampton, but I would hate to have to explain how
  Hampton's lost over five hundred thousand pounds on the Nethercote account
  because of your personal whim to finish Simon Kerslake's career. It may
  interest you to know that the only thing the bank gained from that fiasco
  was good will, and we managed

               376
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

 that because I recommended that Morgan Grenfell pick up the pieces."
  "You two-timing crook. When I make that public it will finish you," said
  Charles triumphantly.
  "Perhaps," said Reynolds calmly. "But it will also stop you from becoming
  Prime Minister."
  Charles turned, picked up his umbrella, put on his gloves and walked away.
  As he reached the door, a secretary walked in holding two cups of coffee.
  "I'll only be needing one, Miss Bristow," said Reynolds.
  Charles passed her without a word and slammed the door.

 "Don't vou know any other restaurants9"
  "Yes, but they don't know me," replied Ronnie Nethercote, as the two men
  strolled into the Ritz for the first time in a couple of years. Heads
  turned as people leaned forward and whispered Simon's name to their guests.
  "What are you up to nowadays? I can't believe Opposition fully occupies
  you," Ronnie said as they took their seats.
  "Not really. I might almost be described as one of the four miHior,
  unemployed," replied Simon.
  "That's what we're. here to talk about," said Ronnie, "but first I
  recommend the country vegetable soup and the .. ."
 "Beef off the trolley," intedected Simon.
 "You remembered."
 "It's the one thing you've always been right about."
  Ronnie laughed more loudly than people normally did in the Ritz before
  saying, "Now that you no longer have the entire armed forces at your
  disposal or ambassadors to call you Your Eminence or however they address
  you now, why don't you join the board of my new company?"

               377
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "It's kind of you to ask, Ronnie, but the answer has to be no."
 They broke off their conversation to give their orders.
  "There's a salary of twenty-five thousand pounds a year that goes with it."
  "I must admit it would help with Lucy's clothes allowance," said Simon,
  laughing. "Since she's been up at Oxford, Lucy seems to have been to more
  balls than tutorials."
 "Then why not come in with us"" asked Ronnie.
  "Because I'm a committed politician," said Simon, "and I no longer want to
  involve myselfin any conimercial activities."
  "That might stop you from becoming Prime Minister?"
  Simon hesitated at the bluntness ofRonnie's question, then said, "Frankly,
  yes. I've got a better- than -outside chance, and I'd be foolish to
  lengthen the odds by becoming involved in anything else right now."
  "But everyone knows that as soon as Margaret announces she's going to pack
  up, you'll be the next Leader. It's as simple as that."
 "No, Ronnie, it's never as simple as that."
 "Then tell me, who could beat you?"
 "Charles Hampton, for one."
 "Hampton? He's a toffee-nosed prig," said Ronnie.
  "He has a lot of friends in the Party, and his patrician background still
  counts for something with the Tories."
  "Oh, come on," said Ronnie. "You'll kill Hampton with every elected member
  of the Party having a vote."
  "Time will tell,' said Simon. "But what have you been up to?" he asked,
  deliberately changing the subject.
  "I've been working my backside off in preparation for the new company going
  public, which is why I wanted you on the board."
 "You never give up."

               378
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "No, and I hope you haven't given up your one percerit of the company."
 "Elizabeth has it locked away somewhere."
 "Then you had better find the key."
 "Why?" asked Simon.
  "Because when I put out ten million shares on the market at three quid a
  time, your one original share will be exchanged for one hundred thousand
  shares of common stock. I know you weren't ever Chancellor, but that's
  three hundred thousand pounds of anyone's money."
 Simon was speechless.
 "Well, say something," said Ronnie.
  "Frankly I'd forgotten the share existed," Simon finally managed.
  "Well, I think I can safely say," said Ronnie, parodying one of Mrs.
  Thatcher's favorite phrases, "that's not a bad investment for a pound, and
  one you will never regret."

  As his first budget debate as Chancellor drew near, Raymond found
  twenty-four hours each day were not enough, even without sleep. He went
  over the budget changes he required with the Treasury mandarins, but it
  became more obvious as each week passed that he would have to make
  sacrifices. He was sick of being told that there would always be next year,
  feeling he had waited far too long already.
  As the weeks passed, compromises were reached and cutbacks agreed on, but
  Raymond managed to cling to the changes about which he felt most
  passionate. The morning before the budget, the mandarins handed him his
  speech. It ran to one hundred and forty-three pages and they estimated it
  would keep him at the dispatch box for two and a half hours.
 At ten past three the next day Raymond appeared on

               379
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the steps of Number 11 and held the famous battered budget box, first used
 by Gladstone, high above his head. Dressed in a morning coat, he looked
 elegant and relaxed as photographers took the traditional picture before
 he was driven to the Commons.
  By three-fifteen, the chamber had taken on the took of an opening night
  in the West End, for what members were about to experience was pure
  theater.
  At three twenty-five Raymond entered the chamber to be greeted by cheers
  from his own side. Every place in the Commons except his had been filled.
  He looked up to see Joyce in the Strangers' Gallery, and smiled. At
  three-thirty, when the Prime Minister had finished answering questions,
  the Chairman of Ways and Means rose from his chair and called: "Budget
  statement, Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer."
  Raymond rose and placed his speech in front of him. He addressed the
  House for the first hour and a half without divulging any of the fiscal
  changes that he would be making, so abiding by the tradition that no ir-
  reversible decisions could be considered until the Stock Exchange had
  closed. Raymond took a sip from the glass of water by his side when he
  had turned page seventy-eight. He had finished with the theory and was
  now rea~y to start on the practice.
  "Old-age pensions will be raised to a record level, as will allowances
  for single-parent families and disablement grants. War widows' pensions
  will go up by fifty percent and war bonds will be honored at their full
  face value."
  Raymond paused and, taking a faded sheet from his inside pocket, read
  from the first speech he had ever delivered in public. "No woman whose
  husband has sacrificed his life for his country shall be allowed to
  suffer because of an ungrateful nation." The cheering after this
  statement lasted for some considerable time, and Ray-
  
               380
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 mond turned over the last page of his prize-winning essay before returning
 to his prepared speech.
  Once the House had settled down again, he continued. "Taxes on salaries of
  more than thirty thousand pounds a year will be raised to eighty-five
  percent, and capital-gairis tax to fifty percent." Several Conservatives
  looked glum. The Chancellor went on to announce an expansion program in the
  regions to stimulate employment. He detailed his plan by region, to cheers
  from different sections of the House.
  fie ended his speech by saying, "Our purpose as the first Labour Government
  in ten years is not to rob the rich and give to the poor, but rather to
  make those who live in comparative ease pay taxes that will alleviate the
  plight of those in genuine need. Let me tell those of you who sit on the
  benches opposite that this is only a fifth of what we intend to achieve in
  the lifetime of this Parliament, and t)y then Britain can hope to be a more
  equal and just society. We intend to create a generation in which class is
  as outdated as debtors' prison, a generation in which talent, hard work and
  honesty are their own reward, a democratic society that is the envy of the
  East as weli as the West. This budget., Mr. Speaker, is nothing more than
  the architect's plan for that dream. I look for-ward to being given enough
  time to build the reality."
  When Rayniond resumed his seat after two hours and twenty minute&--the
  length of time it takes to run a world-class marathon--he was greeted by
  cheers and the waving of agenda papers frorn the benches behind him.
  The Leader of the Opposition was faced with the almost impossible task of
  an immediate response, and she couldn't hope to do ntore than pick up one
  or two weaknesses in the Chancellor's philosophy. The House did not hang on
  her every word.

               381
 "PART SIX
 .&L&

Party
Leaders

 1988-iggo
              29

 MARGARET THATCHER was the first to realize changes would have to he made
 in the Shadow Cabinet after the success of Raymond Gould's first budget.
 She moved Simon to tackle Home Affairs and Charles to counter the
 formidable problems now raised by Raymond Gould at the Treasury.
  Charles, as Shadow Chancellor, quickly gathered around him an impressive
  young team of economists, bankers and accountants whom he recruited
  mainly from the new intake on the back benches. Raymond soon discovered
  that his task of pushing legislation through became that much harder.
  Raymond's success continued, however, even if it was at a slower pace
  than that for which he had hoped. Labour won the first two by-elections
  occasioned by member deaths. The by-election results only started a fresh
  round of rumors that Denis Thatcher was pressing his wife to retire.
  The former Prime Minister sent a letter to the chairman of the 1922
  Committee, letting him know that she would not seek reelection as Party
  Leader. She explained that she would be over sixty-five at the next

               385
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 election and had already led the party for fourteen years, the longest
 period for any Conservative since Churchill, and that she now felt she was
 ready to pass the Leadership on to new blood.
  The moment everyone in the Party had said the usual phrases about the
  retiring Leader being the greatest since Churchill, they proceeded to
  look for the new Churchill. The political journalists predicted that only
  two candidates had a real chance--Charles Hampton and Simon Kerslake.
  Charles went about his campaign in the thorough manner in which he
  approached everything, appointing lieutenants to covex- each intake of
  new members since 1964. Simon had selected Bill Travers to organize his,
  backup team. Travers, like any farmer, rose early each morning to gather
  in his harvest.
  Both Simon and Charles were nominated within the first twenty-four hours
  of the necessary seven days, and by the weekend none of the rumored third
  candidates had appeared in the lists, which convinced the press it would
  be a two-horse race.
  Profiles of both men appeared in all the Sunday papers along with
  pictures of their wives. It was unfortunate for Charles that the only
  photograph the press could find of Amanda and himself together had been
  taken in 1981, when miniskirts were briefly the fashion, making them look
  even more like father and daughter.
  The profiles covered Simon's rise from a middle-class Tory background to
  winning a marginal seat in Coventry before being offered a junior post
  at the Home Office. Then came his short period away from the Commons
  before returning to the House to hold the post of Minister of State for
  Northern Ireland, and subsequently Secretary ol'State for Defense, and
  finally Foreign Affairs. The high points of Simon's career that were most
  emphasized were the Irish Charter, which had subsequently become law, his
  miraculous escape and the 386
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 tragedy ofhis son's death from an IRA bomb, and his firm stand over HMS
 Broadsword
  Charles was painted as the more traditional Tory. The younger twin of the
  Earl of Bridgewater, he had entered the House after Eton and Oxford and
  three years in the ghts of his career, in the Grenadier Guards Fhe highlig
  press's opinion, had been his training in the Whip's office and his work as
  a Treasury Minister, followed by a steady traditional role at the Foreign
  Office, his firm stand on Broadsword, and now his competent, hardworking
  foil to Raymond Gould's budget thrusts.
  The Sunday Time,~ had gone one better than its rivals. Its political
  editor, Peter Ridell, spent the whole week trying to contact the 257 Tory
  members. He succeeded in reaching 228 of them and was able to report to his
  readers that 101 had said they would vote for Simon Kerslake, 98 for
  Charles Hampton, while 29 had refused to give any opinion. The article's
  headline read "Slight Lead for Kerslake" and went on to point out that al-
  though the two men were polite about each other in public, no one pretended
  that they were friends.
  "King Kerslake" ran the banner headline in the Monday editions of the Sun,
  and its political editor predicted Simon would win by 130 to 127. Simon
  suspected that they had done little more than divide the Sunday Times's
  "don't-knows" down the middle. With eight days to go he was being quoted at
  2-1 on with Charles 11-8 against by the veteran ex-Labour MP Lord Mikardo,
  who had run a book on the last fourteen leadership contests irrespective of
  party. When Elizabeth told him the odds, Simon remained skeptical, as he
  knew from bitter experience that it never paid to underestimate the Right
  Honorable Member for Sussex Downs. Elizabeth agreed and then pointed to a
  small paragraph in the paper, which he had overlooked. Ronnie's new company
  was going public, and the shares looked certain to be well oversubscribed.
  "That's one pre-
  
               387
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 diction that's turned out to be accurate," said Simon, smiling.

  With twelve hours to go to the close of nominations, a new candidate
  appeared in the lists, which came as a shock to everyone because until
  that moment the general public had been entirely unaware of Alec Pirnkin.
  Some of his colleagues even expressed surprise that he had beer, able to
  find a proposer and a seconder. As it had been assumed that Pimkin's
  supporters were all men who would have backed Charles, it was considered
  a blow to his cause, although most political pundits doubted if Pimkin
  could scrape together more than seven or eight out of the two hundred and
  fifty-seven votes to he cast,
  Charles pleaded with Pimkin to withdraw, but he stubbornly refused,
  admitting to Fiona that he was thoroughly enjoying his brief moment of
  glory. He held a press conference in the Commons, gave endless interviews
  to television, radio and the national press, and found he was receiving
  considerable political attention for the first time in his life since the
  Common Market debate. He even enjoyed the cartoon that appeared in the
  Daily Telegraph of the three candidates on the starting line, which had
  Charles portrayed as a string bean, Simon as a jumping bean, and Alec as
  a has-been waddling in a long way behind the other two. But Alexander
  Dalghsh remained puzzled as to what had made Pimkin place his name in the
  lists in the first place.
  "My majority in Littlehampton has plummeted from over twelve thousand to
  three thousand two hundred since I was first elected, and frankly the
  Social Democrats have been getting a little too close for comfort."
  "But how many votes can you hope to pick up?" asked Fiona.
  "Many more than those drunken scribblers realize. I have nine votes
  already pledged, not including my 388
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

own, and I could well end up with as many as fifteen." "Why so inany9" asked
 Fiona, immediately realizing how tactless the question must have sounded.
  "Dear, simple creaitire," Pimkin replied. "There are some members of oui
  Party who do not care to be led either by a middle-class pushy minor public
  schoolboy or an aristocratic, arrogant snob. By voting for me they can
  lodge their protest very clearly."
  "But isn't that irresponsible of you?" asked Fiona, annoyed by the "simple"
  quip.
  "Irresponsible it may be, but you can't begin to imagine the invitations I
  have been receiving during the last few days. They should continue for at
  least a year after the election is over,"

  No one had thought Tom Carson would play a major role in the Leadership
  ofthe Tory Party. But when he dropped hi,. bombshell, the elements of bad
  luck and timing came together. On the Thursday before the Leadership
  election the House was packed for questions to the Chancellor. Raymond and
  Charles were having their usual verbal battles across the dispatch box.
  Charles was coming out slightly on top and, as the Treasury wasn't his
  portfolio, all Simon could do was sit with his legs up on the table and
  listen while Charles scored points.
  Tom Carson seemed to be extremely anxious to get in a supplementary on
  almost any financial question that was down on the order paper. Between
  two-thirty and five past three he had leaped up from his place no less than
  a dozen times. The digital clock above the Speaker's chair had reached 3:12
  when, out of exasperation, the Speaker called him on a seemingly innocuous
  question on windfall profits.
  With Prime Minister's questions just about to begin, Carson faced a packed
  House and a full press gallery. He paused for a moment before phrasing his
  question. 389
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "What would be my Right Honorable friend's attitude to a man who invests
  one pound in a company and, five years later, receives a check for three
  hundred thousand pounds, despite not being on the board or appearing to
  be involved in any way with that company?"
  Raymond was puzzled; he had no idea what Carson was talking about. He did
  not notice that Simon Kerslake had turned white.
  Raymond rose to the dispatch box. "I would remind my Honorable friend
  that I put capital-gains tax up to fifty percent, which might dampen his
  ardor a little," he said. It was about the only attempt at humor Raymond
  had made at the dispatch box that year, which may have been the reason
  so few members laughed, As Carson rose a second time, Simon slipped a
  note across to Raymond, -,xhich he hurriedly skimmed.
  "But (toes the Chancellor consider that such a person would be fit to be
  Prime Minister, or even Leader of the Opposition?"
  Members started talking among themselves, trying to work out at whom the
  question was directed, while the Speaker stirred restlessly in his seat,
  anxious to bring a halt to such disorderly supplementaries. Raymond re-
  turned to the dispatch box and told Carson that the question was not
  worthy of an answer. There the matter might have rested, had Charles not
  risen to the dispatch box.
  "Mr. Speaker, is the Chancellor aware that this personal attack is aimed
  at my Right Honorable friend, the member for Pucklebridge, and is a
  disgraceful slur on his character and reputation. The Honorable Member
  for Liverpool Dockside should withdraw his allegation immediately."
  The Conservatives cheered their colleague's magnanimity, while Simon
  remained silent, knowing that Charles had successfully put the story on
  the front page of every national paper. Tom Carson, arms folded, sat

               390
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 back looking, satisfied with himself. The Speaker quickly moved on to Prime
 Minister's Questions.
  Charles sat back, pleased with the effect he had caused. He didn't look at
  Simon, who was visibly trembling.

  Simon read the papers over breakfast on Friday morning. He had riot
  overestimated the effect of Charles's bogus supplementary question. The
  details of his transaction with Ronnie Nethercote were chronicled in the
  fullest extent, and it did not read well that he had received three hundrcd
  thousand pounds from a "property speculator" for a one-pound, investment.
  Some of the papers felt "bound to ask" what Nethercote hoped to gain out of
  the transaction. No one seemed to realize that Simon had been on the
  previous company's board for five years, had invested sixty thousand pounds
  of his own money in that company, and had only recently finished paying off
  the overdraft, ending up with a small loss.
  By Sunday Simon had made a full press statement to set the record straight,
  and most of the papers had given him a fair hearing. However, the editor of
  the Sunda~, Express didn't help matters with a comment in his widely read
  "PM" column on the center page,

 I would not suggest for one moment that Simon Kerslake has done anything
 that might be described as dishonest, but with the spotlight turned so
 fiercely on him, there may be some members of Parliament whojeel thej,
 cannot risk going into a General Election withan accident-prone leader. Mr.
 Hampton, on the other hand, has made hisposition abundantly clear. He did
 not seek to return to hisfamily bank in Opposition while he wa v still
 hoping to hold public of
                             ,fice.

  The Monday papers were reassessing the outcome of the ballot to take place
  the next day and were predicting

               391
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 that Hampton now had the edge. Some journalists went so far as to suggest
 that Alec Pimkin might profit from the incident as members waited to see if
 there would be a second chance to give their final verdict.
  Simon had received several letters of sympathy during the week, including
  one from Raymond Gouid. Raymond assured Simon that he had not been prepared
  for the Carson supplementary and apologized for any embarrassment his first
  answer might have caused.
  "It never crossed my mind that he had," said Simon, as he passed Raymond's
  letter over to Elizabeth.
  "The Times was right," she said a few moments later. "He is a very fair
  man."
 A moment later Simon passed his wife another letter.

15 Mav 1989           Hampton's Bank 202 Cheapside London ECI

 Dear Mr. Kerslake,
  I write to correct one statement to which the press
 has continually referred. Charles Hampton, thefor-
 mer chairman qj' this bank, did seek to return to
 Hampton's after the Conservatives went into Opposi-
 tion. He hoped to continue as chairman on a salary of
 L40,000 a year.
  The board of Hampton's did not fall In with his
 wishes.

                   Yours sincerely,
                   CLIVE REYNOLDS

  "Will you use it?" asked Elizabeth, when she had finished reading the
  letter through.
 "No. It will only draw more attention to the issue."
  Elizabeth looked at her husband as he continued to read the letters and
  remembered the file that she still possessed on Amanda Wallace. She would
  never reveal

               392
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 its contents to Simon; but perhaps the time had come to make Charles
 Hampton sweat a little.

  On Monday evening Simon sat on the front bench hstening to the Financial
  Secretary moving those clauses of the short Finance Bill which were being
  taken in Committee on the floor of the House. Charles never let any one
  of Raymond Gould's team get away with a phrase, or even a comma, if he
  could see a weakness in his case, and the Opposition were enjoying every
  moment. Simon sat and watched the votes slipping away, knowing he could
  do nothing to stop the process.
  Of the three candidates, only Pimkin slept well the night before the
  election.
  Voting began promptly at nine o'clock the next day in the Grand Committee
  room of the House of Commons, the party whips acting as tellers. It
  became apparent that Mrs. Thatcher had decided to remain neutral, and by
  three-ten all but one of those entitled to vote had done so. The Chief
  Whip stood guard over the large black tin box until Big Ben struck four.
  At four o'clock the box was removed to the Chief Whip's office, and the
  little slips were tipped out and checked twice in less than fifteen
  minutes. As the Chief Whip left his office he was followed, Pied
  Piperlike, by lobby correspondents hoping to learn the result, but he had
  no intention of divulging anything before he reached the 1922 Committee,
  who were keenly awaiting him.
  Comm-ittee room 14 was filled to overflowing with some 250 of the 257
  Conservative members of Parliament present. The chairman of the 1922
  Committee rose, faced the Conunittee, unfolded the piece of paper the
  Chief Whip had handed him and pushed up his glasses. He hesitated as he
  took in the figures.
  "The result of the ballot carried out to select the leader of the
  Parliamentary Party is as follows:

               393
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

       CHARLES HAMPTON   121
       SIMON KERSLAKE    119
       ALEC PIMKIN        16

  There was a gasp, followed by prolonged chatter which lasted until members
  noticed that the chairman remained standing as he waited for some semblance
  of order to return among his colleagues.
  "There being no outright winner," he continued, "a second ballot will take
  place next Tuesday without Mr. Pimkin."
  The national press surrounded Pimkin as he left the Commons that afternoon,
  wanting to know whom he would advise his supporters to vote for in the
  second ballot. Pivikin, obviously relishing every moment, declared a little
  pompously that he intended to interview both candidates in the near future
  and ask them one or two apposite questions. He was at once dubbed "King-
  maker" by the press, and the phones at his home and office never stopped
  finging. Whatever their private thoughts, both Simon and Charles agreed to
  see Pimkin before he told his supporters how he intended to cast his vote.

  Elizabeth checked the faded file that she had not looked at for so many
  years. She sat alone at her desk willing herself to go through with it. She
  sipped the brandy by her side that she had removed from the medicine
  cabinet earlier that day. All her years of training and a total belief in
  the Hippocratic oath went against what she felt she must now do. While
  Simon slept soundly she had lain awake considering the consequences. She
  had made her final decision. Simon's career canie first. She picked up the
  phone, dialed the number and waited. Elizabeth nearly replaced the phone
  when she heard his voice.
 "9712. Charles Hampton speaking."

               394
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 She felt a shudder run through her body.
  "It's Elizabeth Kerslake," she said, trying to sound confident. There was
  a long silence in which neither of them spoke.
  Once Elizabeth had taken another sip of brandy, she added, "Don't hang
  up, Mr. Hampton, because I feel confident you'll be interested in what
  I have to say."
 Charles still didn't speak.
  "Having watched you from a distance over the years, I am sure that your
  reaction to Carson's question in the Common- last week was not
  spontaneous."
 Charles cleared his throat but still didn't speak.
  "And if anything else happens this week that could cause my husband to
  lose the election, be assured I shall not sit by and watch."
 Charles still didn't speak.
  "I have in front of me a file marked Miss Amanda Wallace, and if you wish
  all its contents to remain confidential, I would advise you to avoid any
  repetition of your antics, because it's packed with names Private Eye
  would wallow in for months."
 Charles still didn't speak.
  Elizabeth's confidence was growing. "You needn't bother to inform me that
  such an action would get me struck off the medical register. That would
  be a small penalty for being allowed to watch you suffer the way my
  husband has this past week." She paused. "Good day, Mr. Hampton."
  Elizabeth put the phone down and swallowed the remainder of the brandy
  by her side. She prayed that she had sounded convincing, because she knew
  she could never carry out such a threat.

  Charles took Pimkin to dinner at White's-where Alec had always wanted to
  be a member-and was escorted to a private room on the first floor.
 Charles didn't wait long to ask, "Why are you going

               395
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 through with this charade? Don't you reaLize I would have won .0i that
 first round if you hadn't stood?" Pirakin bridled. "I haven't had so
 much fun in years." "But who the hell got you your seat in the first
 place?"
            0
  "I well remember," said Pimkin. "And I remember the price you exacted for
  it. But now it's my turn to call the tune, and this time I require
  something quite different."
  "What are you hoping for? Chancellor of the Exchequer in my first
  administration, no doubt?" said Charles, barely able to keep the sarcasm
  from his voice.
  "No, no," said Pimkin, "I know my worth, for I am not a complete fool."
  "So what do you want? Membership at White's? Perhaps I couid fix tha!."
  "Nothing so mundane. In return for putting you into Downing Street I
  expect to be translated to the House of Lords."
  Charles hesitated. He could always give Pimkin his word; and who other
  than Pimkin would notice if he didn't carty it through?
  "If you and your fifteen men vote for me next 'ruesday I'H put you in the
  Lords," said Charles. "You have my word on it."
  "Good," said Pinikin. *'But one small thing, old chum "' he added as he
  slowly folded his napkin.
  "Christ -what do you want now?" asked Charles, exasperated.
 "Like vou, I want the agreement in writing,"
  Charles hesitated again. but this time he knew he was beaten. "I agree,"
  he said.
  "Good, then it's a deal," said Pimkin. Looking around for a waiter, he
  added, "I rather think champagne is called for "
  When Pim.kiii put forth the same proposition to Simon two days later,
  Simon Kerslake took some time

               396
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 before he answered. Then he said, "That's a question I would have to
 consider on its merits at the time, if and when I become Prime Minister."
  "So bourgeois," said Pimkin as he left Simon's office. "I offer him the
  keyi to Number Ten and he treats me like a locksmith."

  Charles left the Commons that night having spent his time going around
  to a large cross section of his supporters, and he was reassured to
  discover they were standing firm. Wherever he went in the long Gothic
  corridors, members singly or in groups came up to pledge their support.
  It was true that Kerslake's windfall of three hundred thousand pounds was
  fast becoming yesterday's news, but Charles felt enough blood had been
  let from that wound to insure his final victory, even though he still
  cursed Pimkin for holding up the result. One anonymous note, with all the
  necessary details, sent to the right Labour member, had certainly proved
  most effective. Charles cursed again as he realized Elizabeth Kerslake
  had successfully stopped any further covert attacks on his rival.
  When he arrived home, he was appalled to find Amanda waiting for him in
  the drawing room. She was the last person he was in the mood to see at
  the moment.
  "I thought I told you to stay away until the middle of next week?"
 "I changed my mind, Charlie," said Amanda.
 "Why?" be asked suspiciously.
  "I think I've earned a little reward for being such a good wife."
  "What do you have in mind?" he asked as he stood by the mantelpiece.
 "Fair exchange."
 "For what?"
 "For the world rights to my life story."

               397
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Your what?" said Charles in disbelief. "Who is going to be the slightest
  bit interested in you?"
  "It's not me they're interested in, Charlie, it's you. News o 'the World
  has offered me one hundred thousand pounds for the unexpurgated story of
  life with Charles Hampton." She added dramatically, "Or what it's like to
  live with the second son of an earl who will go to any lengths to become
  Prime Minister."
 "You can't be serious," said Charles.
  "Deadly serious. I've made quite a few notes over the years. How you got
  rid of Derek Spencer but failed to pull the same trick on Clive Reynolds.
  The extremes you went to, trying to keep Simon Kerslake out of the House.
  flow your first wife swapped the famous Holbein picture of the first Earl
  of Bridgewater. But the story that will cause the moit interest is the one
  in which the real father of young Harry Hampton is revealed, because his
  dad's fife story was serialized in People a couple of years ago, and that
  seems to be one episode they missed out."
  "You bitch, you know Harry is my son," said Charles, advancing toward her.
  But Amanda stood her ground.
  "And perhaps I should include a chapter on how you assault vour wife behind
  the closed doors of your pe~ceful Eat6n Square mansion."
 Charles came to a halt. "What's the deal?"
  "I keep quiet for the rest of my life and you present me witb fifty
  thousand pounds now and a further fifty thousand when you become Leader."
 "You've gone mad."
  "Not me, Charlie, I've always been sane. You see, I don't have a paranoia
  to work out on dear, harmless brother Rupert. News of the World will love
  that part, now that he's the fifteenth earl. I can just see the picture of
  him wearing his coronet and decked out in his ermine robes."
 "They wouldn't print it."
 "They would when they realize he is as queer as a

               398
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 three dollar note, and therefore our only son will collect the earldom
 when he is not entitled to it."
  "No one would believe it, and by the time they print the story it will
  be too late to hurt me," said Charles.
  "Not a bit," said Ainanda. "I am assured by my agent that the true reason
  behind the resignation of the Leader of the Conservative Party would he
  an even bigger scoop than that of a one-tinie contestant."
 Charles sank down into the nearest armchair.
 "Twenty-five thousand," he said.
  "Fifty," replied his wife. "It's only fair. After all, it's a double
  deal: no story to the press and you become Leader of the Conservative
  Party."
  "All right," whispered Charles, rising to leave the room.
  "Wait a moment, Charlie. Don't forget I've dealt with you in the past."
  "What else are you hoping for?" said Charles, swinging around.
  "Just the autograph of the next Tory Leader," she replied, producing a
  check.
  "Where the hell did you get hold of that?" asked Charles, pointing to the
  slip of paper.
 "From your checkbook," said Amanda innocently.
 "Don't play games with me."
 "From the top drawer of your desk."
  Charles snatched it from her and nearly changed his mind. Then he thought
  of his brother in the House of Lords, his only son not inheriting the
  title, and he himself having to give up the Leadership. He took out his
  pen and scribbled his name on the check before leaving his wife in the
  drawing room holding fifty thousand pounds. She was checking the date and
  the signature carefully.

  Simon had received a tip from a friendly journalist that Pimkin would
  come out in support of his old school 399
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 chum. He took Elizabeth down to the country for a quiet weekend while the
 photographers pitched camp in Eaton Square.

  "A brilliant move," said Elizabeth over breakfast the next morning, looking
  at the picture on the front page of the Observer.
  "An ot her photo of Hampton telling us what he will do when he's Prime
  Minister?" said Simon not looking up from the Sunday Times.
  "No," said Elizabeth and passed her paper across the table. Simon stared at
  the Holbein portrait of the first Earl of Bridgewater under the headline:
  "A Gift to the Nation."
  "Good God," said Simon. "Are there no depths he will sink to to win this
  election?"

  "My dear, by any standards you have delivered the coup de grace," saia
  Pimkin to Fiona over lunch that Sunday.
  "I thought you would appreciate it," said Fiona pouring him another glass
  of his own wine.
  "I certainly did, and I particularly enjoyed the director of' the National
  Gallery's comments-'That Charles's gesture of presenting the priceless
  painting to the National was the act of a selfless man.' "
  "Of course-once the story had been leaked to the press, Charles was left
  with no choice," said Alexander Dalglish.
  "I redlize that," said Pimkin, leaning back, "and I would have given a
  dozen bottles of my finest claret to have seen Charles's face the moment he
  realized the first Earl of Bridgewater had escaped his clutches forever. If
  he had denied giving the earl to the nation, the publicity that would have
  followed would have certainly insured defeat in the election on Tuesday."

               400
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "Win or lose next week," said Alexander, "he daren't then suggest it was
  done without his approval."
  "I love it, I love it," said Pimkin. "I am told that Princess Diana will
  be unveiling the portrait on behalf of the National at the official
  ceremony, and rest assured I shall be there to bear witness."
 "Ah, but will Charles?" asked Fiona.

  On Monday morning Charles's brother phoned from Somerset to ask why he
  had not been consulted about donating the Holbein to the nation.
  "It was my picture to dispose of as I pleased," Charles reminded him
  andslammed down the phone.

  By nine o'clock on Tuesday morning, when the voting took place for the
  last time, the two contestants had spoken to nearly every member twice.
  Charles joined his colleagues in the members' dining room for lunch while
  Simon took Elizabeth to Lockets in Marsham Street. She showed him some
  colored brochures of a holiday on the Orient Express, which would be the
  most perfect way to see Venice. She hoped that they wouldn't have time
  to go on the trip. Simon hardly mentioned the vote that was
  simultaneously taking place in the Commons but it never was far from
  either of their minds,
  The voting ended at three-fifty but once again the Chief Whip did not
  remove the black box until four o'clock. By four-fifteen he knew the
  winner but did not reveal his riame until the 1922 Committee had assem-
  bled at five o'clock. lie informed their chairman at one minute to five.
  Once again, the chairman of the 1922 Committee stood on the small raised
  platform in committee room 14 to declare the result. There was no need
  to ask if the people at the back could hear.
 "Ladies and gentlemen," he said, his words echoing

               401
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 around the room, "the result of the second ballot for the Leadership of
 the Tory Party is as follows:

       CHARLEs HAMPTON      119
       SIMON KFRSLAKE    137

  Just over half the members present rose and cheered while Bib Travers ran
  all the way to Simon's office to be the first to report the news. When
  he arrived, Simon swung round and faced the open door.
  "You look and sound as though you'd run a marathon."
 "Like Pheidippides, I bring great news of victory."
  "I hope that doesn't mean you're going to drop down dead," said Simon,
  grinning.
  The new Leader of the Conservative Party said nothing more for a few
  moments. It was obvious that Pimkin had come out in favor of him. Later
  that night one or two other members also admitted that they had changed
  their minds during the second week because they hadn't liked the blatant
  opportunism of Charles's presenting a priceless portrait to the nation
  only a few days before the final vote.
  The following morning Fiona phoned Pinikin to ask him why he had acted
  as he did. "My dear Fiona," he replied, "like Sydney Carton, I suppose
  I thought it would be good to go to my grave knowing I had done one
  honorable thing in my life."

 402
              30

 ITTOOK ONLY A WEEK for Simon's little house on Beaufort Street to be
 transformed. The usually quaint and sheltered neighborhood became cluttered
 with ferries of cars bearijig photographers, journalists and television
 crews. Some neighbors wondered how Elizabeth fixed such a gracious smile on
 her face each morning as she made her way through the hopeful interviewers
 who seemed permanently camped on her doorstep. Simon, they noted, handled
 the problem as if it had always been part of his daily routine. He had spent
 his first two weeks selecting the Shadow Cabinet he wanted to take into the
 next General Election. He was able to announce the composition of his new
 team to the press fourteen days after his election as Leader of the
 Conservative Party. He made one sentimental appointment: that of Bill
 Travers as Shadow Minister of Agriculture.
  When asked at a press conference why his defeated rival would not be
  serving on the team, Simon explained that he had offered Charles Hampton
  the Deputy Leadership and any portfolio of his choice, but Charles had
  turned the offer down, saying he preferred to return to the back benches
  for the present.

               403
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Charles had left for Scotland the same morning for a few days' rest by the
  River Spey, taking his son with him. Although he spent rnuch of their short
  holiday feeling depressed about the Dual outcome of the Leadership
  struggle, Harry's original efforts at fishing helped him deaden some of the
  pain. Harry even ended up with the biggest fish.
  Amanda, on the other hand, realizing how slim her chances were of catching
  any more fish, reopened negotiations over her life story with News of the
  World.
  When the features editor read through Amanda's notes he decided on two
  things. She would require a ghostwriter, and the paper would have to halve
  their original ofler.
 "Why?" demanded Amanda.
  "Because we daren't print the better half of your story."
 "Why not?"
 "No one would believe it."
 "But every word is true," she insisted.
  "I'm not doubting the veracity of the facts," said the editor. "Ouly our
  readers' ability to swallow them."
  "They accepted that a man climbed the walls of Buckingham Palace and found
  his way into the Queen's bedroom."
  "Agreed," replied the editor, "but only after the Queen had confirmed the
  story. I'm not so sure that Charles Hampton will be quite as cooperative."
  Amanda remained silent long enough for her agent to close the deal.
  The watered-down version of "My Life with Charles Hampton" appeared a few
  months later to coincide with Charles's much-publicized divorce, but it
  made no more than a faint ripple in political circles. Now that Charles had
  no hope of leading his party, it was very much yesterday's news.

               404
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Amanda came out of the divorce settlement with another fifty t1tousand
  pounds but lost custody of Harry, which was all Charles really cared
  about. Charles prayed that her irresponsible remarks reported in the
  paper concerning the boy's claim to the title had been quickly forgotten.
  Then Rupert phoned from Somerset and asked to see him privately.

  As Raymond entered his second year as Chancellor, the opinion polls
  showed the two main parties were once again neck and neck. A surge in
  Tory popularity came as no surprise after a change in Tory leadership,
  but Simon's first year had shown a dynamism and energy that amazed even
  his closest supporters. Raymond was daily made more conscious of the
  inroads Simon was making on the Government program. It only made him work
  even harder to iasure that his policies became law.

  No one needed to tell Simon he had a good first year as Opposition
  Leader. His party's percentage in the polls was now running neck and neck
  with the Government's.
  But in the House lie often found himself being frustrated. Political
  correipondents reported that it was the most balanced contest in years.
  For as long as Labour held the majority, Simon often won the argument
  while losing the vote.

  They sat facing each other in Charles's drawing room at Eaton Square.
  "I am sorrv to broach such an embarrassing subject," said Rupert, "but
  fell it was my duty to do so."
  "Duty, poppycock," said Charles, stubbing out his cigarette. "I tell you
  Harry is my son, and as such will inherit the title. He's the spitting
  image of Great-grandfather and that ought to be enough proof for anyone."
 "In normal circumstances I would agree with you, but

               405
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the recent publicity in News of the World has been brought to my notice
 and I feel . .."
  "That sensationalist rag," said Charles sarcastically, his voice rising.
  "Surely you don't take their word before niine?"
  "Certainly not," said Rupert, "but if Amanda is to be believed, Harry is
  not your son."
  "How am I meant to prove he is?" asked Charles, trying to control his
  temper. "I didn't keep a diary of the dates when I slept with my wife."
  "I have taken legal advice on the matter," continued Rupert, ignoring the
  comment, "and am informed that a blood test is all that will prove
  necessary to verify Harry's claim to the title. We both share a rare
  blood group, as did our fattier and grandfather, and ifflarry is of that
  group I shall never mention the subject again. If not, then the title
  will eventually be inherited by our second cousin in Australia."
  "And if I don't agree to put my son through this ridiculous test?"
  "Then the matter must be placed in the hands of our family solicitors,"
  said Rupert sounding unusually in control, "and they inust take whatever
  course they consider fit."
 "That must never happen," said Charles weakly.
 "It will happen," said Rupert.

  When the Prime lVinister went into the hospital for a minor operation,
  the press immediately started to speculate on his resignation. Ten days
  later, when he walked out looking, better than ever, the rumors ceased
  immediately. In the Prime Minister's absence, Raymond, as Deputy Leader,
  chaired Cabinet meetings and stood in for him during questions in the
  Commons. This gave the lobby correspondents a chance to proclaim, like
  Caesarian soothsayers plucking at entrails, that Raymond was '~rhnus
  inter pares. "

               406
         FIRs,r AMONG EQUALS

  Raymond enjoyed presiding over the Cabinet and in particular the challenge
  of Prime Minister's Questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
  lie enjoyed the sensation of acting as Prime Minister but realized he could
  not afford to get used to it. Indeed, when the Prime Minister returned to
  Downing Street, he assured Raymond that the operation had been a success
  and the likelihood ofany recurrence of the trouble was, in the surgeon's
  opinion, minimal. He admitted to Raymond that lie hoped o lead the Party to
  a second victory at the polls, by which time he would be within a few years
  of his seventieth birthday and ready to bow out quietly. He told Raymond
  quite bluntly that he hoped he would be his successor.

 "Daddy. Daddy, open my school report."
  Charles left the morning mail unopened as he hugged Harry. He knew nothing
  could ever part them now, but he dreaded Harry's finding out that he might
  not be his real father
  "Please open it," pleaded Harry, wriggling free. The school doctor had been
  asked to take a sample of Harry's blood along with six other boys from his
  year so that he would not consider the request unusual. Even the doctor
  hadn't been told the full significance of the action.
  Harry extracted the envelope from the pile by Charles's side-the one with
  the school crest in the top left-hand comer---and held it out for his
  father to open. He looked excited and seemed hardly able to contain
  himself. Charles had promised lie would phone his brother as soon as the
  result of the blood test was confirmed. He had wanted to phone the doctor
  a handred times during the past week but had always stopped himself,
  knowing it would only add to the man's curiosity.
  "Come on, Dad, read the report, and you'll see it's trrie."

               407
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  Charles tore open the letter and removed the little book which would
  reveal the result of all Harry's efforts during the term. lie flicked
  through the pages: Latin, English, History, Geography, Art, Divinity,
  Games, Headmaster. He read the last page, a small yellow sheet headed
  "Term Medical Report." It began: "Harry Hampton, Age ten, Height 49",
  weight 5 stone, 4 lbs." He glanced up at Harry who looked as if he was
  about to burst.
 "It is true, Dad, isn't it?"
  Charles read on without answering the boy's question. At the foot of the
  page was a typewritten note signed by the school doctor. Charles read it
  twice before he understood its fall significance, and then a third time:
  "As requested, I took a sample of Harry's blood and analyzed it. The
  results show that Harry shares a rare blood group. ..."
 "Is it true, Dad?" asked Harry yet again.
 "Yes, my son, it's true."
  "I told you, Dad, I knew I'd be top in the class. That means I'li be head
  of the next school term. Just like
 YOU."
  "Just like me," said his father as he picked up the phone by his side and
  began to dial his brother's home number.

 408
              31

AT THE LABOUR PARTY conference in October, Ray
mond delivered a keynote speech on the state of the na
tion's finances. He pressed the unions to continue
supporting their Government by keeping the twin evils
of inflation and unemployment at acceptable levels.
"Let us not pass on three years of achievement to be
squandered by a Conservative Government," he told the
cheering delegates. "Brothers, I look for-ward to present
ing five more Labour budgets that will make it impossi
ble for the Tories to imagine a future victory at the

 polls.11
  Raymond received one of the rare standing ovations to be given to any
  Cabinet Minister at a Labour Party conference. The delegates had never
  doubted his ability, and over the years they had grown to respect his
  sincerity as well as his judgment.

  Seven more days passed before Simon addressed the Tory faithful at the
  Conservative Party conference. By tradition, the Leader always receives
  a four- to six-minute standing ovation after he completes his speech on

               409
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 the final dAy. "He'd still get four minutes," said Pimkin to a colleag tie,
 "if he read them Das Kapital. "
  Simon had spent weeks preparing for the occasion since he was convinced
  this would be the last conference before the election. lie was pleasantly
  surprised to find Charles Harnpton coming forward with new ideas on tax
  reform which he said he hoped might be considered for inclusion in the
  Leader's speech to the conference.
  Charles had recently been making useful contributions in the House during
  finance debates, and Simon hoped that it would not be long before he would
  be willing to return to the front bench. Simon did not agree with most of
  his colleagues, who felt that his old rival had mellowed considerably
  during his time on the back benches. He was too wary to accept that Charles
  had totally lost his ambition for high office. But whatever his private
  misgivings, he desperately needed someone of Charles' ability to counter
  Raymond Gould at the Treasury. Simon included Charles's suggestions in the
  final draft of his speech and dropped him a handwritten note of thanks. He
  received no reply.
  On that Friday morning in Brighton, in front of two thousand delegates, and
  millions more watching on television, Simon presented a complete and
  detailed plan of what he hoped to achieve when the Conservatives were
  returned to Government.
  After the peroration, the delegates duly rose for a genuine six-minute
  ovation. When the noise had died down, Pimkin was heard to remark, "I think
  I made the right decision."

  Sadness overcame the House in its first week back when the aging Mr.
  Speaker Weatherill suffered a heart attack and retired to the Lords. The
  Government's overall majority was only two at the time, and the Labour
  Party Chiet'Whip feared that if they supplied the new Speaker from their
  own ranks and the Conservatives

               410
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 were to retain the old Speaker's safe seat the Government majority would
 cease to exist. Simon reluctantly agreed that the Speaker should come from
 the Conservatives' own benches.

  Charles Hampton asked to be granted a private interview with the Chief
  Whip, who agreed to see him without hesitation. Like Simon, he was hoping
  that Charles would now be willing to rejoin the front bench and was merely
  approaching him as an intermediary. Everyone in the Party was pleased that
  Charles had begun to regain his stature in the House since his chairmanship
  of Standing Committees, and he seemed more popular now than he had ever
  been.
  Charles arrived at the Chief Whip's office the following morning and was
  quickly ushered through to his private room. Charles's once Odyssean locks
  had turned white, and the deeper lines in his face gave him a more gentle
  appearance. The Chief Whip couldn't help noticing that a slight stoop had
  replaced his ramrod bearing.
  Charles*s request came as a shock. The Chief Whip had gone over many
  reasons why Charles might want to see him, but Simon Kerslake's great rival
  was the last man he would have considered for this post, because it would
  forever deny him the chance of becoming Leader.
  "But it's no secret that Simon wants you to return to the front bench and
  be the next Chancellor," said the Chief Whip. "You must know he would be
  delighted to have you back on the team."
  "That's c.onsiderate of him," said Charles drily. "But I would prefer the
  more restful life of being an arbitrator rather thar an antagonist. I fear
  our differences could never be fully reconciled. In any case, I've lost
  that desire always to be on the attack. For over twenty years Simon has had
  the advantage of a wife and a family to keep his feet on the ground. It's
  only in the last three or four that Harry has done the same for me."

               411
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The Chief Whip let out a long sigh, unable to hide his disappointment.
  "I wffl convey your request to the Party Leader," was all he said. The
  Chief Whip wondered if Simon would be as disappointed as he was, or if
  in fact he might riot be relieved to see his old antagonist relegated to
  the sidelines.

  All men are thought to have one great moment in their careers in the I
  louse, and for Alec Pimkin it was to be that day.
  The election of a Speaker in the Commons is a quaint affair. By ancient
  tradition, no one must appear to want the honor, and it is rare for more
  than one person to be proposed for the post. During Henry VI's reign
  three Speakers were beheaded within a year, although in modem times it
  has been the heavy burden of duties that has often led to an early grave.
  This tradition of reluctance has carried on through the ages.
  Alec Pinik-in rose from his seat on the back benches to move "that the
  Right Honorable Charles Hampton does take the chair of this House as
  Speaker." Dressed in a dark blue Suit, sporting a red carnation and his
  favorite pink-spotted bow tie, Alec Pimkin rose to address the House. His
  speech was serious yet witty, informed yet personal. Pimkin held the
  House in his grasp for nine minutes and never once let it go. "He's done
  his old friend proud," one member muttered to another across the gangway
  when Pimkin sat down, and indeed the look on Charles's face left no doubt
  that he felt the same way, whatever had taken place in the past.
  After Charles had been seconded, the tradition of dragging the
  Speaker-elect to the chair was observed. This normally humorous affair,
  usually greeted with hoots of laughter and cheering, became even more of
  a farce at the sight of the small, portly Pimkin and his Labour seconder
  dragging the six-foot-four former Guards

               412
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 officer from the third row of the back benches all the way to the chair.
  Charles began by expressing his grateful thanks for the high honor the
  House had bestowed on him. He then surveyed the Commons from his new
  vantage point. When he rose and stood his full height, every member knew
  thev had selected the right man for the job. The sharpnes~ of his tongue
  might have gone, but it had been replaced with an equally firm delivery
  that left none of his colleagues, however unruly, in any doubt that Mr.
  Speaker Hampton intended to keep "order" for many years to come.

  Raymond was distressed when the Conservatives increased their majority
  in the Speaker's old seat and captured a marginal constituency on the
  same day. He didn't need the press to point out that were Conservatives
  and the Social Democratic Party to join forces, Government and Opposition
  would be equal in number, insuring a premature General Election. Raymond
  was determined that the Government hold on for at least another four
  weeks, so that he could deliver his third April budget and give the Party
  a strong platform on which to light the election.

  Simon knew that if Raymond Gould had the chance to deliver his third
  budget speech in April, the Labour Party might be saved at the polls.
  There was only one solution: to win a "no confidence" motion before the
  end of March. Simon picked up the phone to call the Social Democratic
  Party headquarters. Their Leader was all too happy to meet that
  afternoon.

  Raymond had accepted an invitation to address a large Labour rally in
  Cardiff the weekend before the vote of "no confidence." He boarded the
  train at Pad-
  
               413
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dington, settled into his compartment and began to check over his speech.
 As the train pulled into Swindon, a railway official stepped on board and,
 having discovered where the Chancellor of the Exchequer was seated, asked
 if he could speak to him privately for a few minutes. Raymond listened
 carefully to what the man had to say, replaced the speech in his
 briefcase, got off the train, crossed the platform and returned by the
 first available train to London.
  On the journey back he tried to work out all the consequences of the news
  he had just been told.
  As soon as he arrived at Paddington, he made his way through the waiting
  photographers and journalists, answering no questions. A car took him
  straight to Westminster Hospital. Raymond was shown into a private room
  to find the Prime Minister sitting upright in bed.
  "Now don't panic," said the Prime Minister before Raymond could speak.
  "I'm in fine shape considering I'm over sixty, and with all the pressure
  we've been under this last year,"
  "What's wrong with you?" asked Raymond, taking a chair next to the
  hospital bed.
  "Recurrence of the old trouble, only this time they say it will take
  major surgery. I'll be out of this place in a month, six weeks at the
  most, and then I'll live as long as Harold Macmillan, they tell me. Now,
  to more important matters. As Deputy Leader of the Party, I want you to
  take over again, which will mean you will have to speak in my place
  during the 'no confidence' debate on Wednesday. If we lose the vote, I
  sha,11 resign as Party Leader."
  Raymond tried to protest. From the moment he had been told the Prime
  Minister was ill again, he had known the implications. The Prime Minister
  held up his hand to still Raymond's words and continued, "No party can
  fight an election with its Leader laid up in bed

               414
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 for six weeks, however well he might be when they release him. The voters
 have the right to know who is going to lead the Party in Parliament." As
 the Prime Minister spoke, Raymond remembered Kate's telegram on the day
 of his election as Deputy Leader. "And of course, if we are forced into
 an election before the Party conference in October, under Standing Order
 Number 5 (4), the national executive and the Shadow Cabinet would meet and
 automatically select you to take over as Party Leader."
  Raymond raised his head. "Yes, the importance of that particular standing
  order had already been pointed out to me," he said without guile.
 The Prime Minister smiled. "Joyce, no doubt."
 "No, her name was Kate, actually."
  The Prime Minister briefly looked puzzled, and then continued. "I think
  you must face the fact that you may well be running for Prime Minister
  in three weeks' time. Of course, if we win the 'no confidence' vote on
  Wednesday, then it's a different matter altogether, because I'll be back
  and guiding the ship long before the Easter recess is over. That will
  give us enough time to call the election after you've delivered your
  third budget."
  "I'm unable to express how much we will miss your Leadership," said
  Raymond simply.
  "As every member of the House will know which lobby they'll be voting in
  long before the debate begins, my Leadership may turn out to be less
  important than my single vote. Just be certain your speech is the finest
  you ever deliver to the House. And don't forget it will be the first
  occasion on which they've allowed television into the Commons, so make
  sure Joyce picks out one of those smart shirts you sometimes wear."

  Raymond spent the final few days before the "no confidence" vote
  preparing his speech. He canceled all the engagements in his diary except
  for the Speaker's 415
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 dinner to celebrate the Queen's sixty-fifth birthday, at which he would
 be standing in for the Prime Minister.
  The Government and Opposition Whips spent Monday and Tuesday checking
  that every member would be present in the House by ten o'clock on
  Wednesday night. The political journalists pointed out that if the vote
  were it tie, Mr. Speaker Hampton had already made it clear that he would
  abide by the ancient tradition of casting his vote for the Government of
  the day.
  The following day, members began arriving hours before the debate was due
  to begin. The Strangers' Gallery had been booked days in advance, with
  many senior ambassadors and even some privy councillors unable to be
  guaranteed seats. The Press Gallery was filled and editors were sitting
  at the feet of their political journalists' desks, while the House was
  taken up with lighting equipment that had been checked a dozen times that
  morning.
  Between two-thirty and three-thirty, Mr. Speaker Hampton had been unable
  to stop members from chattering during questions to Mr. Meacher,
  Secretary of State for Education, but at three-thirty he duly shouted for
  order and did not have to wait long for silence before calling, "The
  Leader of the Opposition."
  Simon rose from his place on the front bench to be
 greeted with cheers from his own side. He was momen
 tardy surprised by the brightness of the arc lights, which
 he had been assured he would hardly notice, but soon he
 was into his stride. Without a note in front of him he
 addressed the House for fifty minutes, tearing into the
 Government one moment, then switching to the policies
 he would implement the next. He ended his peroration
 by describing the Labour Party as "the party of wasted
 opportunity," then added-jabbing his finger at Ray
 mond- ---- ~'but you will be replaced by a party of ideas
 and ideals."

               416
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The applause continued for some time before Charles could bring the House
  back to order.
  When it came to Raymond's turn to wind up on behalf of the Government,
  members wondered how he would make himself heard above the noise that
  greeted him. He rose to the dispatch box and, looking grave, with head
  bowed, almost whispered his first few words, "Mr. Speaker, I know the whole
  House would wish me to open my speech by saying how sad we all are that the
  Prime Minister is unable to be present himself I am sure all Honorable
  Members will want to join me in sending him, his wife and family our best
  wishes as he prepares for his operation."
  Suddenly the House was silent, and, having caught its mood, Raymond raised
  his head and delivered for the eleventh time the speech he had prepared so
  assiduously. When he had seen Simon deliver his apparently impromptu
  speech, Raymond had torn up his notes. He spelled out the achievements of
  the Government during the past two and a half years and assured the House
  that he was only halfway through his time as Chancellor. When he reached
  the end of his speech, he found, like the speakers before him, that he was
  covered with sweat from the heat sent out by the powerful arc lights. "We,
  Mr. Speaker, will see the return of a Labour Government for another full
  Parliament." Raymond sat down as the clock reached 10:00.
  The Speaker rose, and his first words were lost as he put the motion: "This
  House has no confidence in Her Majesty's Government.
  "As many as are ofthat opinion say Aye-, to the contrary, No. I think the
  Ayes have it."
  "No," hollered back the voices from the Government benches.
  "Clear the lobbies," called the Speaker above the cheers for Raymond Gould.
  Members departed to the

               417
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Ayes or Nos lobbies to cast their votes. It was fourteen minutes before
 the tellers returned to a noisy chamber to give the result of the division
 to the clerk at the table, who then entered the figures on a division
 paper. The four tellers lined up and advanced toward the table from the
 bar of the House. They came to a halt and bowed. One of the Opposition
 whips read out: "Ayes to the right three hundred twenty-three, Nos to the
 left three hundred twenty-two," and passed the piece of paper to the
 Speaker, who tried to repeat it above the bedlam. Few members heard him
 say, "The Ayes have it, the Ayes have it."
  Raymond sat on the front bench watching the delighted Tories, who were
  acting as if they had already won the election. Ile reflected that if the
  Prime Minister had been present to register his vote, the Government
  would have saved the day.

 418
              32

 HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN visited her Prime Minister in the hospital twenty-four
 hours after his successful operation. He advised the monarch to dissolve
 Parliament in a week's time and asked that the General Election be set for
 May 9. lie explained to the Queen that he intended to resign as Leader of
 his Party immediately but would remain Prime Minister until the result of
 the General Election was known.
  When the Prime Minister thought the audience was over the Queen took him by
  surprise. She sought his advice on a personal matter which she realized
  could affect the outcome of the General Election. The Prime Minister felt
  that once the Labour Party had confirmed Raymond Gould as their new Leader,
  he should be the one to offer Her Majesty advice on such a crucial matter.

  The National Executive board of the Labour Party met behind closed doors.
  Three hours and twenty minutes passed before the committee issued a
  one-line press release. "Mr. Raymond Gould has been invited to lead the
  Party at the forthcoming General Election."
 The press was met by a unified voice once the meeting

               419
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 was over. As the editor of the Sunday Express wrote in the center page of
 the paper, "The Labour Party, in selecting their Leader, resembled nothing
 less than the old-fashloned magic circle of the Tory Party in their de-
 termination to prove unity." The only leak he had managed to gather from
 the meeting was that "Raymond Gould's acceptance speech had impressed
 everyone present."
  But the editor went on to point out that if the Labour Party should lose
  the General Election, Raymond Gould could be the shortest-serving Leader
  in its history, as tinder Standing Order 5(4) of the Constitution his
  appointment must be confirmed by the delegates at the next Party
  conterence in October.

  It had been two hours before Raymond was able to leave the committee room
  and escape the press. When he eventually got away he went straight to
  Westminster Hospital to visit the Prime Minister. The operation had
  visibly aged him. He was in good spirits, but he admitted that he was
  glad not to be facing a grueling election campaigii. After he had
  congratulated Raymond on his new appoffltment he went on to say, "You're
  dining with the Queen tonight?"
  "Yes, to celebrate her sixty-fifth birthday," said Raymond.
  "You must be prepared for more than that," said the Prime Minister
  gravely, and he then revealed the private conversation that he had had
  with the monarch the previous day.
  "And will her decision depend or., the three people in that room?"
 "I suspect it win.
 "And where do you stand?"
  "That's no longer relevant. It's more important what you consider is best
  for the country."

               420
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  For the first time Raymond felt like the Leader of the Party.

  Elizabeth straightened Simon's white tie and took a pace back to look at
  him.
  "Well, at least you took like a Prime Minister," she said, smiling.
  Her husband checked his watch. Still a few minutes to spare before he
  needed to be at the Speaker's private apartments---not that he was
  willing to risk being late for this particular birthday celebration.
  Elizabeth helped him on with his overcoat and after a search realized he
  had lost another pair of gloves.
  "I do hope you can take care of the nation's belongings a little better
  than you do your own," she sighed.
  "I'm sure I'll find it harder to lose a whole country," said Simon.
  "Do remember that Raymond Gould will be trying to assist you," ,aid
  Elizabeth.
  "Yes, that's true. I only wish I was fighting the present Prime
  Minister."
 "Why?" she said,
  "Because Gould was born into the wrong party," said Simon as he kissed
  his wife and walked toward the front door, "and a lot of voters are
  coming to the same conclusion."
  The policeman at the gates of New Palace Yard saluted as Simon was driven
  into the courtyard and dropped at the members' entrance. He glanced at
  his watch again as he strode through the swinging doors: ten minutes to
  spare. The Commons had the feel of a funeral parlor, with most of the
  members already back in their constituencies preparing for the General
  Election.
  Simon peeked into the smoking room. A few members were scattered around,
  mainly from safe seats that they felt did not need nursing. Pimkin,
  surrounded by his

               421
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 usual cronies, hailed his Leader. His face lit up when he saw Simon
 formally dressed. "I say, waiter, mine's a double gin and tonic." His
 companions duly laughed. Simon responded by asking the barman to give Mr.
 Pimkin a large gin and tonic and to charge it to his account.
  Simon spent a few minutes moving from group to group, chatting to members
  about how the election might go in their constituencies. Pimkin assured
  Simon that the Tories would win easily. "I wish everyone was as confident
  as you are," Simon told him before leaving for the Speaker's private
  apartments as Pimkin ordered another gin.
  Simon strolled along the library corridor, lined from floor to ceiling
  with venerable old journals of the House, until he reached the Speaker's
  private rooms. When he came to the grand stairway dominated by Speaker
  Addington's portrait, he was met by the Speaker's train bearer clad in
  white tie and black tails.
  "Good evening, Mr. Kerslake," he said and led Simon down the corridor
  into the artecharnber where a relaxed Charles Hampton stood ready to
  receive his guests. Charles shook Simor's hand formally. Simon thought
  how well ~is colleague looked compared with the way he looked ir, those
  days following the Leadership battle. Both men were still ill at ease
  with each other.
  "Gould did himself proud today," said Charles. Simon shifted
  uncomfortably from foot to foot. "Wouldn't make a bad Prime Minister,"
  Charles added. His face ,vas unreadable. Simon couldn't decide if the
  statement had been made matter-of-factly or if his old rival simply still
  harbored a desire to see his downfa Ll.
  He wa-, about to test him when the train bearer announced, "The Right
  Honorable Raymond Gould."
 Charles went over to greet his guest. "Many congrat-
               422
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ulations on your election as Leader," were his first words. "With all you've
 been through this week, you must be exhausted."
  "Exhilarated, to be honest," replied Raymond. Ravmond moved toward Simon,
  who, in turn, offered ~is congratulations. The two men shook hands, and for
  a moment they looked like medieval knights who had lowered their visors
  before the final joust. The unnatural silence that followed was broken by
  Charles.
  "Well I hope it's going to be a good, clean fight," he said, as if he were
  the referee. Both men laughed.
  The train bearer came to the Speaker's side to inform him that Her Majesty
  had left Buckingham Palace and was expected in a few ~ninutes. Charles
  excused himself, while the two Leaders continued their conversation.
  "Have you been told the real reason why we are bidden this eveDing?" asked
  Rayrnond.
  "Isn't the Queen's iixty-fifth birthday enough?" inquired Simon.
  "No, that's just an excuse for us to meet without suspicion. I think it
  might be helpful for you to know that Her Majesty has a highly iensitive
  proposition to put to us both."
  Simon listened as Raymond revealed the substance of his discussion with the
  Prime Minister.
  "It was considerate of you to brief me," was all Simon said after he had
  taken in the effect such a decision might have on the General Election.
  "I feel sure it's no more than you would have done in my position," said
  Raymond.

  Charles waited in the entrance of the courtyard of the Speaker's house to
  wclcome the Queen. It was only a few minutes before he spotted two
  motorcycle escorts entering the gates of New Palace Yard, followed by the
  familiar maroon Rolls-Royce which displayed no li-
  
               423
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 cense plate. The tiny white fight in the center of its roof blinked in the
 evening dusk. As soon as the car had come to a halt, a footman leaped down
 and opened the door.
  The Queen stepped out, to be greeted by the commoner whom history had
  judged to be the monarch's man. She was dressed in a simple aqua cocktail
  dress. The only jewelry she wore was a string of pearls and a small diamond
  brooch. Charles bowed before shaking hands and taking his guest up the
  carpeted staircase to his private apartments. Her two Party Leaders stood
  waiting to greet her. She shook hands first with her new Labour Leader, the
  Right Honorable Raymond Gould, congratulated him on his new appointment
  that afternoon and inquired how the Prime Minister was faring. When she had
  listened intently to Raymond's reply, she shook hands with her Leader of
  the Opposition, the Right Honorable Simon Kerslake, and asked how his wife
  was coping at Pucklebridge General Hospital. Simon was always amazed by how
  much the Queen could recall from tier past conversations, most of which
  never lasted for more than a few moments.
  She took the gin and tonic proffered her on a silver tray and began to look
  around the magnificent room. "My husband and I are great admirers of the
  Gothic revival in architecture, though, being infrequent visitors to
  Westminster, alas, we are usually forced to view the better examples from
  inside railway stations or outside cathedrals."
  The three men smiled, and after a few minutes of light conversation Charles
  suggested they adjourn to the state dining roorn, where four places were
  set out at a table covered with silver that glittered in the candlelight.
  They all waited until the Queen was seated at the head of the table.
 Charles had placed Raymond on the Queen's right

               424
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 and Simon on her left, while he took the seat directly opposite her.
  When the champagne was served, Charles and his colleagues rose and
  toasted the Queen's health. She reminded them that her birthday was not
  for another two weeks and remarked that she had twenty-four official
  birthday engagements during the month, which didn't include the private
  family celebrations. "I would happily weaken, but the Queen Mother
  attended more functions for her ninetieth birthday last year than I have
  planned for my sixty-fifth. I can't imagine where she gets the energy."
  "Perhaps she would like to take my place in the election campaign," said
  Raymond.
  "Don't suggest it," the Queen replied. "She would leap at the offer
  without a second thought."
  The chef had prepared a simple dinner of smoked salmon followed by lamb
  in red wine and aspic. His only flamboyant gesture was a birthday cake
  in the shape of a crown resting on a portcullis of sponge. No candies
  were evident.
  After the meal had been cleared away and the cognac served, the servants
  left them alone. The three men remained in a warm spirit until the Queen
  stopped proceedings abruptly with a question that surprised only Charles.
 She waited for an answer.
 No one spoke.
  "Perhaps I should ask you first," said the Queen, turning to Raymond, "as
  you are standing in for the Prime Minister."
  Raymond didn't hesitate. "I am in favor, ma'am," he said quietly, "and
  I have no doubt it will meet the approval of the nation."
  "Thank you," said the Queen. She next turned to Simon.

               425
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  "I would also support such a decision, Your Majesty," he replied. "At heart
  I am a traditionalist, but I confess that on this subject I would support
  what I think is described as the modern approach."
  "Thank you," she repeated, her eyes finally resting on Charles Hampton.
  "Against, ma'am," he said without hesitation, "but then I have never been
  a modern man."
  "That is no bad thing in Mr. Speaker," she said, and paused before adding,
  "but as I seem to have a consensus from my Party Leaders, I intend to go
  through with it. Some years ago I asked a former Lord Chancellor to draw
  tip the necessary papers. He assured me then that if none of my
  parliamentary Leaders was against the principle, the legislation could be
  carried through while Parliament was still in session."
  "That is correct, ma'am," said Charles. "It would require two or three days
  at most if all the preparations have already been completed. It's only a
  matter of proclamation to both Houses of Parliament; your decision requires
  no vote."
 "Excellera, Mr. Speaker. Then the matter is settled."

 426
 PART SEVEN

Prime
Minister

       kI
       , - -V
      -%I -
      off f R

     11991
              33

 HER MAJESTY'S PROCLAMATION was passed through the Lords and the Commons.
 When the initial shock had been absorbed by the nation, the election
 carapaign once again took over the front pages.
  The first polls gave the Tories a two-point lead. The press attributed this
  to the public's relative unfamiliarity with the new Labour Leader, but by
  the end of the first week the Tories had slipped a point, while the press
  had decided that Raymond Gould had begun his stewardship well.
  "A week is a long time in politics," he quoted. "And there are still two to
  go."
  The pundits put forward the theory that Raymond had increased his
  popularity during the first week because of the extra coverage he had
  received as the new Leader of the Labour Party. He warned the press de-
  partment at Labour Party headquarters that it might well be the shortest
  honeymoon on record, and they certairdy couldn't expect him to be treated
  like a bridegroom for the entire three weeks. The first signs of a broken
  marriage came when the Department of Ern-
  
               429
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 ployment announced that inflation had taken an upturn for the first time
 in nine months.
  "And who has been Chancellor for the last three years?" demanded Simon
  in that night's speech in Manchester.
  Raymond tried to dismiss the figures as a one-time monthly hiccough, but
  the next day Simon was insistent that there was more bad news just around
  the comer. When the Department of Trade announced the worst deficit in
  the balance of payments for fourteen months, Simon took on the mantle of
  a prophet and the Tories edged back into a healthy lead.
  "Honeymoon, broken marriage and divorce, all in a period oi fourteen
  days," said Raymond wryly. "What can happen in the last seven?"
 "Reconciliation, perhaps?" suggested Joyce.

  For some time the Social Democratic Party had considered Alec Pirnkin's
  seat in Littlehampton vulnerable. They had selected an able young
  candidate who had nursed the constituency assiduously over the past three
  years and couldn't wait to take on Pimkin this time,
  Alec Pinikin eventually made an appearance in Littlehampton ---only after
  the local chairman had tracked him down to his London flat to say they
  were becoming desperate. The SDP yellow lines were almost as abundant on
  the canvas returns as the Conservative blue ones, he warned.
  "Don't you realize that I have had grave responsibilities in the
  Commons?" Pimkin declared. "No one could have anticipated that members
  would have been called back for a special declaration."
  "Everyone knows about that," said the chairman. "But the bill commanded
  by the Queen went through all its three readings last week without a
  division."
 Pimkin inwardly cursed the day they had allowed

               430
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 television into the House. "Don't fuss," he soothed. "'Come the hour,
 cometh the man,' and surely the voters will remember that I have had a
 long and distinguished parliamentary career. Damn it, old thing, have you
 forgotten that I was a candidate for the Leadership of the Tory party?"
  No-and how many votes did you receive on that occasion? the chairman
  wanted to say, but instead he took a deep breath and repeated his urgent
  request that the member visit the constituency as soon as possible.
  Pimkin arrived seven days before the election and, as in past campaigns,
  settled himself in the private bar of the Swan Arms--the only decent pub
  in the town, he assured those people who took the trouble to come over
  and seek his opinion.
  "But the SDP candidate has visited every pub in the division," wailed the
  chairman.
  "More fool he. We can say that he's looking for any excuse for a pub
  crawl," said PimIcin, roaring with laughter.
  Any temporary misgivings Pimkin might have had were allayed when be noted
  in the evening paper that the national polls showed that Labour and
  Conservative were neck and neck at 42 percent, while the SDP had only 12
  percent.

  Raymond spent the last week traveling from Liverpool to Glasgow and then
  back to Manchester before he returned to Leeds on the eve of the
  election. He was met at the station by the Mayor and driven to the Town
  Hall to deliver his last appeal to the electorate before an audience of
  two thousand.
  Introducing him, the Mayor said, "Ray has come home."
  The zoorri lens of the TV cameras showed clearly the fatigue of a man who
  had only caught a few hours' sleep

               431
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 during the past month. But it also captured the energy and drive that had
 kept him going to deliver this, his final speech.
  When he came to the end, he waved to his supporters who cheered themselves
  hoarse. Suddenly he felt his legs beginning to give way. Joyce and Fred
  Padgett took the exhausted candidate home. He fell asleep in the car on the
  way back, so the two of them helped him upstairs, undressed him and let him
  sleep on until six the next morning.

  Simon returned to Pucklebridge on the eve of the election to deliver his
  final speech in the local village hall. Four hundred and eighteen voters
  sat inside to hear him; four thousand others stood outside in the coot
  night air listening to his words relayed on a loudspeaker; and fourteen
  million more viewed it on "News at Ten." Simon's powerful speech ended with
  a rallying call to the electorate: "Be sure you go to the polls tomorrow.
  Every vote will be vital."
  He did not realize how accurate that prophecy would turn out to be.

  On Election Day both Leaders were up by six. After interviews on the two
  breakfast television channels, both stood for the obligatory photo of the
  candidate arriving at a polling hall with his wife to cast his vote. Simon
  enjoyed being back in Pucklebridge, where for a change he had the chance to
  shake the hands of his own constituents. Neither Leader ever sat down that
  day other than in a car as they moved from place to place. At 10 P.m. when
  the polls closed, they collapsed, exhausted, and allowed the computers to
  take over.
  Raymond and Joyce stayed in Leeds to follow the results on television while
  Simon and Elizabeth returned to London to witness the outcome at the
  Conservative central office.

               432
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

  The first result came from Guilford at eleven twentyone, and showed a 2
  percent swing to the Conservatives.
  "Not enough," said Simon in the Party chairman's study at central office.
  "It may not be enough," said Raymond when the next two seats delivered
  their verdict, and the swing switched back to Labour.
 It was going to be a long night.
  When the first hundred seats had been declared, the analysts were certain
  of only one thing: that they were uncertain of the final outcome.
  Opinions, expert and amateur, were still fluid at one o'clock that
  morning, by which time two hundred results were in, and remained so at
  two o'clock when over three hundred constituencies had been reported.
  Raymond went to bed with a lead of 236-191 over Simon, knowing it might
  not be enough to offset the country shires the next day. Neither Raymond
  nor Simon slept. The next morning pundits were back on radio and
  television by six o'clock, all agreeing with the Daily Mail's headline,
  "Stalemate." Raymond and Joyce returned to London on the early afternoon
  train after they learned Raymond had retained Leeds North with a record
  majority. Simon traveled back down to Pucklebridge where he, too,
  acknowledged a record majority.
  By three forty-seven, when Raymond had reached Number I I Downing Street,
  the Labour lead had fallen to 287-276. At four, the Social Democrats
  notched up a victory in Brighton East by a mere 72 votes. It was more
  than the loss of the seat that saddened Simon. "The House won't be quite
  the same without Alec Pimkin," he told Elizabeth.
  At four twenty-three that Friday afternoon, both the major parties had
  three hundred and three seats, with only twenty seats still to be heard
  from. Simon won two and smiled. Raymond won the next two and stopped

               433
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 frowning. With six results still to come in, even the computer had stopped
 predicting the results.
  At five the BBC's veteran commentator announced the final vote of the
  1991 election:

         CONSERVATIVE  313
         LABOUR        313
         SDP            18
         IRISH          19
         SPEAKER         I

  He pointed out that there had never before been a tie in British
  political history. He went on to say, "There simply is no precedent to
  fall back on as we await word from Buckingham Palace."
  He closed with the observation, "This only makes Her Majesty's recent
  decision even more fateful than we could have anticipated."

  In the audience room of Buckingham Palace, the Lord Chancellor was
  advising the monarch on the legal position that the election results had
  created. He pointed out that although in the past the sovereign's
  ratification had merely served as a symbol to confirm the people's
  wishes, on this occasion the choice itself had to come direct from the
  palace.
  There was, however, one man whose advice he suggested might prove
  invaluable. Whatever his past party loyalty or personal prejudices, the
  Speaker of the House could always be relied upon to offer an unbiased
  judgment as to which candidate would be most able to command the support
  of the House.
  The monarch nodded thoughtfully and later that evening called for Charles
  Hampton. Mr. Speaker spent forty minutes alone with the sovereign. Just
  as the Lord Chancellor had predicted, Hampton gave a fair and accurate
  assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the 434
        FIRs'r AMONG EQUALS

 two leaders. However, Mr. Speaker left the monarch in no doubt as to which
 of the two men he believed would make the most able Prime Minister. He
 added that the man in question enjoyed his utmost personal respect.
  After Charles Hampton had left, the sovereign requested that the private
  secretary contact both Simon Kerslake and Raymond Gould and explain that
  his decision would be made by the following morning.
  When Raymond learned that Charles Hampton had been consulted, he couldn't
  help worrying that despite the Speaker's traditionally neutral role,
  Hampton's Tory background would cloud his final judgment.
  When Simon watched Charles being driven from the Palace on "News at 'ren"
  that night, he switched off the television and, turning to Elizabeth,
  said, "And I really believed that man had harmed me for the last time."

 435
             34-
 KfNG CHARLES III MADE the final decision. He requested his private
 secretary to call upon the Right Honorable Raymond Gould and invite him
 to attend His Majesty at the Palace.
  As Big Ben struck ten o'clock on that Saturday moming, Raymond stepped
  out of the Labour Party headquarters on the comer of Smith Square and
  into the clear monfing sunlight to be greeted by crowds of wellwishers,
  television cameras and journalists. Raymond only smiled and waved,
  knowing it was not yet the occasion to make a statement. He slipped
  quickly through the police cordon and into the back seat of the black
  Daimler. Motorcycle escorts guided the chauffeur-driven car through the
  dense crowds slowly past Conservative Party headquarters. Raymond
  wondered what was going through Simon Kerslake's mind at that moment.
  The chauffeur drove on to MWbank past the House of Commons, round
  Parliament Square, and left into Birdcage Walk before reaching the Mall.
 Scotland Yard had been briefed that the Labour Party

               436
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Leader had been called to see King Charles, and the car never stopped once
 on its journey to the Palace.
  The chauffeur then swung into the Mall, and Buckingham Palace loomed up in
  front of Raymond's eyes. At every junction a policeman held the traffic and
  then saluted. Suddenly it was all worthwhile: Raymond went back over the
  years and then considered the future. His first thoughts were of Joyce, and
  how he wished she could be with him now. He frowned as he recalled the low
  points of his career. The near-disastrous brush with blackmail. His
  resignation and the subsequent years of political exile. He smiled as his
  thoughts turned to the high points: his first ministerial appointment;
  being invited to join the Cabiaet; presenting his first budget, the
  political exhilaration of his climb to the Leadership of the Party. And
  Kate. He could anticipate the telegram she would send by the end of the
  day. Finally, he recalled the little room above the butcher shop, where he
  was first guided by his grandmother onto the path that would lead him to
  Ntimber 10.
  The Daimler reached the end of the Mall and circled the statue ol'Queen
  Victoria before arriving at the vast wrought-iron gates outside Buckingham
  Palace. A sentry in the scarlet uniform of the Grenadier Guards presented
  arms. The huge crowds that had been waiting around the gates from the early
  hours craned their necks hoping to find out who had been chosen to lead
  them. Raymond smiled and waved. In response some of them waved back and
  cheered more loudly while others looked sulky and downcast.
  The Daimler continued on its way past the sentry and across the Courtyard
  through the archway and into the quadrangle before coming to a halt on the
  gravel outside a side entrance. Raymond stepped out of the car to be met by
  the King's private secretary. The silent equerry led Raymond up a
  semicircular staircase, past the Alan

               437
         FIRST AMONG EQUALS

 Ramsey portrait of George 111. The equerry guided Raymond down a long
 corridor before entering the audience room. He left Raymond alone with his
 new sovereign.
  Raymoad could feel his pulse quicken as he took three paces forward,
  bowed and waited for the King to speak.
  The forty-three-year-old monarch showed no sign of nervousness in
  carrying out his first official duty, despite its unusual delicacy.
  "Mr. Gould," he began, "I have taken advice from many quarters, including
  Mr. Speaker, and having done so, I wanted to see you first.
  "I thought it would be courteous to explain to you in detail why I shall
  be inviting Mr. Simon Kerslake to be my first Pfime Minister."