
'UrPercentile' has developed following timetable for the members who are starting
their preparation from June.
You may modify the timetable to suit your requirement.

We recommend that you keep a record of the results of all your
sectional test and full time test in an excel file for analysis later
on. If you program your excel file well, you just need to record
the number of questions you attempted, the time duration for the
test and the correct attempts for each section and the rest all can
be programmed. The excel file may be programmed to provides
you details of Average Attempt per Minute, total Correct attempt
per minute, score attained per minute, accuracy (correct/attempt)
and a lot more. Keep a target attempt rate say 100 for a 2 hours
test and a target for number of correct questions , say 80 for a
two hours test. Use excel to calculate the variance for the
number of question attempted and the variance in correct
questions using that target figure. Compare the speed and
accuracy of the different sections, this will help you to know the
area where you need to improve your speed and accuracy. Play
with your excel file and you will know your weakness and
strengths, and where you need to improve.

http://groups.yahoo.com/group/urpercentile/

The Timetable is as follows :
1) Start working on your vocabulary and RC section now as this
cannot be done in a short time and needs a continuos efforts
over a period of time. You may devote 30 to 45 minutes a day for
this section by reading newspapers and magazines. Keep a
dictionary handy and consult it whenever required.

2) From 1st June to 14th June apart from the time spent on
English section devote 1 hour and 30 minutes everyday for Data
Interpretation and Data sufficiency.

3) From 15th June till 28th June, devote 1 hour and 30 minutes
everyday for Logical Reasoning and Verbal reasoning.

4) 29th June to 8th July , Take section tests on Data
Interpretation, data sufficiency etc.

4) 9th July till 27th July for Arithmetic and Algebra.

5) 28th July to 11th Aug for Geometry, Set theory, Probability and
remaining part of QA.

6) 12th Aug to 20th Aug for Section tests on QA.

7) 21st Aug till end of August for section tests on English. By now
you should score well as you have devoted 45 minute a day on
reading newspaper and on improving your vocabulary.

8) 1st Sept to 10th Sept for the section you think you did not
perform well in your section test.

9 ) From 11th Sept, take Full time Mock test twice a week, till CAT
is held. You should be comfortably able to take 20 full time test.

Note : Take all the section test and Full time test as a part of
learning. After each section test and Full time test you must go
back and solve the questions which you could not solve during
the given time and the ones that you did not solve correctly.

Best Regards
UrPercentile
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/urpercentile/




