    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?2?? 

1. With its plan to develop seven and a half acres of shore land, Cleveland is but one of a large number of communities on the Great Lakes that is looking to its waterfront as a way to improve the quality of urban life and attract new businesses.
(A) is looking to its waterfront as a way to improve the quality of urban life and attract
(B) is looking at its waterfront to improve the quality of urban life and attract
(C) are looking to their waterfronts to improve the quality of urban life and attract
(D) are looking to its waterfront as a way of improving the quality of urban life and attracting
(E) are looking at their waterfronts as a way they can improve the quality of urban life and attract 

2. Byron possessed powers of observation that would have made him a great anthropologist and that makes his letters as a group the rival of the best novels of the time.
(A) makes his letters as a group the rival of
(B) makes his letters as a group one to rival
(C) makes his letters a group rivaling
(D) make his letters as a group the rival of
(E) make his letters a group which is the rival of

3. Although it claims to delve into political issues, television can be superficial such as when each of the three major networks broadcast exactly the same statement from a political candidate.
(A) superficial such as when each of the three major networks
(B) superficial, as can sometimes occur if all of the three major networks
(C) superficial if the three major networks all
(D) superficial whenever each of the three major networks
(E) superficial, as when the three major networks each


4. The filibuster, a parliamentary device that slows the snail's pace that prevails even in the best of times in congressional sessions and tests the endurance of everyone associated with it, seems more and more an anachronism in the age of telecommunications.
(A) sessions and tests the endurance of everyone associated with it, seems
(B) sessions and tests the endurance of everyone who is associated with it, seeming to be
(C) sessions, tests the endurance of everyone associated with it, seems
(D) sessions, that tests the endurance of everyone associated with it and seems
(E) sessions, testing the endurance of everyone associated with it and seeming






5. Comparing the Quechans with other Native Americans of the Southwest, the Quechans were singularly uninterested in the accumulation of material wealth or in the crafting of elaborate pottery and basketry.
(A) Comparing the Quechans with other Native Americans of the Southwest, the Quechans 
(B) When you compare the Quechans to other Native Americans of the Southwest, they
(C) When other Native Americans of the Southwest are compared to the Quechans, they
(D) Comparison to other Native Americans of the Southwest shows that the Quechans
(E) Compared with other Native Americans of the Southwest, the Quechans


6. The guiding principles of the tax plan released by the Treasury Department could have even a greater significance for the economy than the particulars of the plan.
(A) even a greater significance for the economy than
(B) a significance that is even greater for the economy than
(C) even greater significance for the economy than have
(D) even greater significance for the economy than do
(E) a significance even greater for the economy than have


7. One noted economist has made a comparison of the Federal Reserve and an automobile as racing
through a tunnel, bouncing first off one wall, then the other; the car may get where it is going, but
people may be hurt in the process.
(A) made a comparison of the Federal Reserve and an automobile as racing through a tunnel, bouncing
(B) made a comparison between the Federal Reserve and an automobile racing through a tunnel, bouncing
(C) compared the Federal Reserve with an automobile as racing through a tunnel and which bounced
(D) compared the Federal Reserve to an automobile racing through a tunnel, bouncing
(E) compared the Federal Reserve with an automobile that races through a tunnel and it bounces

8.The report on the gross national product---the nation's total production of goods and services---
showed that second-quarter inflation was somewhat lower than a previous estimation and the 
savings rate slightly higher.
(A) a previous estimation and the savings rate slightly higher
(B) a previous estimation and with a slightly higher savings rate
(C) a previous estimate and that the savings rate is slightly higher
(D) previously estimated and a slightly higher savings rate
(E) previously estimated and that the savings rate was slightly higher



9. Like John McPhee's works, Ann Beattie painstakingly assembles in her works an interesting and complete world out of hundreds of tiny details about a seemingly uninteresting subject.
(A) Like John McPhee's works, Ann Beattie painstakingly assembles in her works
(B) Like John McPhee, Ann Beattie's works painstakingly assemble
(C) Like John McPhee, Ann Beattie painstakingly assembles in her works
(D) Just as John McPhee's, so Ann Beattie's works painstakingly assemble
(E) Just as John McPhee, Ann Beattie painstakingly assembles in her works

10. Because natural gas is composed mostly of methane, a simple hydrocarbon, vehicles powered by natural gas emit less of certain pollutants than the burning of gasoline or diesel fuel.
(A) less of certain pollutants than the burning of gasoline or diesel fuel
(B) fewer of certain pollutants than burning gasoline or diesel fuel do 
(C) less of certain pollutants than gasoline or diesel fuel
(D) fewer of certain pollutants than does burning gasoline or diesel fuel 
(E) less of certain pollutants than those burning gasoline or diesel fuel

11. Similar to rising interest rates, consumer and producer prices have been rising.
(A) Similar to rising interest rates, consumer and producer prices have been rising.
(B) Consumer and producer prices have been rising, as have interest rates.
(C) As interest rates are rising, so have consumer and producer prices.
(D) Consumer and producer prices have been rising, like interest rates do.
(E) Consumer and producer prices, as interest rates, have been rising.


12. Although fruit can no longer grow once it is picked, it continues for some time to respire, taking in oxygen and giving off carbon dioxide, similar to the way human beings breathe.
(A) similar to the way human beings breathe
(B) similarly to human beings who are breathing
(C) just like the breathing of human beings
(D) as human beings when breathing
(E) just as human beings do when they breathe

13. The United States government employs a much larger proportion of women in trade negotiations
than any government.
(A) a much larger proportion of women in trade negotiations than any
(B) a much larger proportion of women in trade negotiations than does any other
(C) much larger proportions of women in trade negotiations than has any
(D) proportions of women in trade negotiations that are much larger than any
(E) proportions of women in trade negotiations that are much larger than any other



14. A migraine typically afflicts one side of the head, lasts for hours or days, and may recur as infrequently as once every other month or often, as daily.
(A) as infrequently as once every other month or often, as
(B) as infrequently as once every other month or as often as
(C) infrequently, as often as once every other month, or often, like
(D) infrequently, like once every other month, or often, like
(E) infrequently, like once every other month, or as often as

15. Founded in 1983, the magazine increased its circulation more than double since then, and its advertising.
(A) increased its circulation more than double since then,
(B) has since increased its circulation more than double,
(C) has since more than doubled its circulation
(D) since then more than doubled its circulation
(E) more than doubled its circulation since then

16. Unlike Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates, William Carlos Williams insisted that
poets honor their own regions and employ specifically American rhythms.
(A) Unlike Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates, William Carlos Williams insisted
(B) Although Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates did not, William Carlos Williams' 
insistence was
(C) Contrary to Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates, it was William Carlos Williams who insisted
(D) As opposed to what Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates did, William Carlos 
Williams was to insist.
(E) While Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, and other expatriates did not, William Carlos Williams
was insistent

17. Just as plant species native to regions with browsing mammals evolved many natural anti-
browser defenses (such as sharp spines and toxic chemicals), so humans in malarial regions have
evolved dozens of chemical defenses against malaria.
(A) so humans in malarial regions have evolved dozens of chemical defenses against malaria
(B) humans in malarial regions have been evolving dozens of chemical defenses against malaria
(C) there has been, in malarial regions, an evolution of dozens of human chemical defenses
against malaria
(D) dozens of chemical defenses against malaria have been evolved by humans in malarial regions
(E) similarly, in malarial regions, humans have evolved dozens of chemical defenses against malaria

18. As virtually all the nation's 50 busiest airports are, New York's were built for an age of propellers,
before jet planes weighing 800,000 pounds needed over two miles of runway.
(A) As virtually all the nation's 50 busiest airports are
(B) As with virtually all of the nation's 50 busiest airports
(C) Like virtually all of the nation's 50 busiest airports
(D) Like the cities where virtually all the nation's 50 busiest airports are
(E) Like other cities where virtually all the nation's 50 busiest airports are


19.Poor management, outdated technology, competition from overseas, and steel's replacement to materials like aluminum and fiber-reinforced plastics have all been cited as causes for the decline of the United States steel industry.
(A) steel's replacement to materials like
(B) the replacement of steel by such materials as
(C) the replacing of steel with materials of
(D) the replacing of steel by means of materials like
(E) to replace steel by materials such as

KEY:CDEAE DDECE BEBBC AACB
 


 


1. The demand for airplane mechanics is expected to grow about ten percent a year in the next decade, largely because new federal rules calling for major modifications to older planes and because the air-lines are adding hundreds of new jets.
(A) new federal rules calling for major modifications to older planes
(B) new federal rules, which call for major modifications to older planes
(C) new federal rules call for major modifications to older planes
(D) major modifications to older planes called for by new federal rules
(E) major modifications to older planes are called for according to new federal rules 
2. In the late seventh century, in a dispute over whether the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, Ali, should carry on as the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor, Islam split into two branches, the Sunnis and the Shiites.
(A) over whether the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, Ali, should carry on as the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor
(B) over if Ali, the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, was going to carry on and be the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor
(C) over whether Ali, the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, was going to carry on and be the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor
(D) as to whether the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor, is to be the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-low, Ali
(E) concerning if the fourth caliph, Muhammad's successor, was to be the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, Ali

3. Some analysts point out that because people are becoming accustomed to a steady inflation rate of four to five percent, businesses found that they could raise prices according to this amount without thereby provoking strong public reaction.
(A) found that they could raise prices according to this amount without thereby provoking
(B) found that they were capable of raising prices by this amount and not provoke
(C) find that they are capable of raising prices by this amount and not provoke
(D) are finding that they can raise prices by this amount without provoking
(E) are finding that they can raise prices according to this amount and will not thereby provoke

4. Although it was once funded entirely by the government, the Victoria and Albert Museum was
one of the first of Britain's national museums seeking support from corporations and private
donors and to increase income by increasing attendance.
(A) one of the first of Britain's national museums seeking support from
(B) one of Britain's first national museums seeking support of
(C) among Britain's first national museums to seek support of
(D) among the first of Britain's national museums to seek support from
(E) among Britain's first national museums that have sought the support of

5. Alaska regularly deposits some of its profits from the sale of oil into a special fund, with the intention to sustain the state's economy after the exhaustion of its oil reserves.
(A) fund, with the intention to sustain the state's economy after the exhaustion of its oil reserves
(B) fund, the intention of which is to sustain the state's economy after they have exhausted their oil reserves
(C) fund intended to sustain the state's economy after oil reserves are exhausted
(D) fund intended to sustain the state's economy after exhausting its oil reserves
(E) fund that they intend to sustain the state's economy after oil reserves are exhausted

6. In June of 1989, Princeton Township approved a developer's plans to build 300 houses on a large portion of the 210-acre site of the Battle of Princeton, one of only eight Revolutionary War battlefields that had remained undeveloped.
(A) one of only eight Revolutionary War battlefields that had remained undeveloped
(B) one of eight of the only Revolutionary War battlefields that have remained undeveloped
(C) one of the only eight undeveloped Revolutionary War battlefields that remains
(D) only one of eight Revolutionary War battlefields to remain undeveloped
(E) only one of the eight remaining undeveloped Revolutionary War battlefields

7. The most favorable locations for the growth of glaciers, rather than being the cold, dry polar regions, would be instead the cool, moist middle latitudes, where there is abundant precipitation and where it is cold enough to allow some snow to accumulate year by year.
(A) glaciers, rather than being the cold, dry polar regions, would be instead the cool, moist middle latitudes
(B) glaciers are not the cold, dry polar regions but the cool, moist middle latitudes
(C) glaciers are the cool, moist middle latitudes rather than the cold, dry polar regions
(D) glaciers, instead of being the cold, dry polar regions, would be the cool, moist middle latitudes
(E) glaciers are, instead of the cold, dry polar regions, rather the cool, moist middle latitudes

8. One of the most powerful driving forces behind recycling is the threat of legislation that would quire companies that they take more responsibility for the disposal of its products.
(A) that they take more responsibility for the disposal of its products
(B) that they should take more responsibility for disposing of products
(C) having to take more responsibility for disposing of their products
(D) to take more responsibility for the disposal of their products
(E) taking more responsibility for their product's disposal

9. The evolution of the technology of microelectronics over the past decade has been so rapid that it is sometimes called a revolution.
(A) has been so rapid that it is sometimes
(B) has been rapid enough sometimes to be
(C) has been rapid enough it is sometimes
(D) is so rapid it has sometimes been
(E) is so rapid that it is sometimes

10. Contrary to popular belief, victors in the ancient Greek Olympic Games received cash prizes in addition to their laurel wreaths.
(A) Contrary to
(B) In contrast with
(C) Opposite of
(D) Unlike
(E) In spite of

11. The proposed urban development zones do not represent a new principle; it was employed in "Operation Bootstrap" in Puerto Rico.
(A) do not represent a new principle; it
(B) represent not a new principle, but one that
(C) are not a new principle; the same one
(D) are not a new principle, but one that
(E) are not new in principle; it

12. The nation's three military academies have seen a dramatic rise in applications, one fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, increasing tuition costs at private colleges, and improved recruiting by the academies.
(A) one fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, increasing tuition costs at private colleges, and improved recruiting by the academies
(B) one fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, tuition costs that have increased at private colleges, and academies improving their recruiting
(C) one fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, private colleges that increased their tuition costs, and recruiting improvements by the academies
(D) fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, tuition costs increasing at private colleges, and academies improving their recruiting
(E) fueled by a resurgence of patriotism, increasing tuition costs at private colleges, and academies improving their recruiting

13. The lack of complete historical records from the mid-to-late 1800's have made some Black inventions difficult to trace to their originators.
(A) have made some Black inventions difficult to trace to their originators
(B) have made for difficulties in tracing some inventions by Blacks to their originators
(C) have made it difficult to trace some inventions by Blacks to their originators
(D) has made it difficult to trace some inventions to their Black originators
(E) has made it difficult in tracing some Black inventions to their originators

14. It is not likely that the competitive imbalance that now exists between Japan with all major industrial nations will be redressed during the foreseeable future.
(A) with all major industrial nations will be redressed during
(B) with all other major industrial nations will be redressed within
(C) with all other major industrial nations will be redressed during
(D) and all major industrial nations will be redressed during
(E) and all other major industrial nations will be redressed within

15. The brochure notes that in the seminar the importance that communication is a two-way process will be emphasized.
(A) importance that communication is a two-way process will be emphasized
(B) importance of communication as a two-way process will be emphasized
(C) importance of communication being a two-way process will be the emphasis
(D) fact will be emphasized that communication is a two-way process and of importance
(E) emphasis will be that communication being a two-way process is important

16. In the 1950's astronomers were divided between those who believed the universe began in a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") with those who favored the model of an eternal and infinite steady-state universe.
(A) universe began in a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") with
(B) universe began with a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") and 
(C) universe had a beginning a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") or
(D) universe's beginning was a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") or
(E) universe's beginning was a cosmic explosion (the "big bang") against

17. Most large companies prefer customized computer software because it can be molded to fit the way a company does business, when off-the-shelf software often requires the company to alter its procedures to fit the software.
(A) when
(B) since
(C) whereas
(D) because
(E) insofar as

18. Stable interest rates on long-term bonds are the financial market's vote of confidence in the Federal Reserve keeping in control of inflation.
(A) in the Federal Reserve keeping in control of inflation 
(B) that the Federal Reserve will keep inflation under control
(C) for the Federal Reserve, that it would keep control of inflation
(D) that inflation will be kept control of by the Federal Reserve
(E) that inflation would be kept control of by the Federal Reserve

19. The Forbidden City in Beijing, from which the emperors ruled by heavenly mandate, was a site which a commoner or foreigner could not enter without any permission, on pain of death.
(A) which a commoner or foreigner could not enter without any permission
(B) which a commoner or foreigner could enter without any permission only 
(C) which no commoner or foreigner could enter without permission
(D) which, without permission, neither commoner or foreigner could only enter
(E) which, to enter without permission, neither commoner or foreigner could do

20. Rather than continue to produce most of the items necessary for subsistence, a growing number of farm families during the first decades of the nineteenth century began to specialize in the production of grain or cotton and to use the cash proceeds from selling their crops for buying 
necessities.
(A) selling their crops for buying
(B) the sales of their crops for buying
(C) their selling of crops so as to buy 
(D) their selling crops for buying of
(E) the sale of their crops to buy

21. Although all the proceedings of the Communist party conference held in Moscow were not carried live, Soviet audiences have seen a great deal of coverage.
(A) all the proceedings of the Communist party conference held in Moscow were not carried live
(B) all the Communist party conference's Moscow proceedings were not carried live
(C) all the Communist party conference Moscow proceedings have not been carried alive
(D) not all the Communist party conference Moscow proceedings have been carried alive
(E) not all the proceedings of the Communist party conference held in Moscow were carried live

22. In 1933 the rubber, clothing, and shipbuilding industries put into effect a six-hour workday,
believing it a seeming permanent accommodation rather than a temporary expedient for what many observers thought was an economy made over productive by advances in technology.
(A) believing it a seeming permanent accommodation rather than a temporary expedient for what many observers thought was
(B) believing it a seeming permanent accommodation instead of a temporary expedient for what many observers thought was
(C) believing that it was not a temporary expedient but a seeming permanent accommodation to what many observers thought of as
(D) not as a temporary expedient but as a seemingly permanent accommodation to what many observers thought was
(E) not as a temporary expedient but believing it a seemingly permanent accommodation for what many observers thought

23. Under the restructuring, the huge organization that operates the company's basic businesses will be divided into five groups, each with its own executive.
(A) each with its own executive
(B) all having their own executive
(C) each having their own executive
(D) with its own executive for each
(E) every one with an executive of their own

24. The record of the past is always incomplete, and the historian who writes about it inevitably reflects the preoccupations of their own time. 
(A) the historian who writes about it inevitably reflects
(B) the historian writing about it will inevitably reflect
(C) a historian writing about it inevitably reflects
(D) writing about it, it is inevitable for historians to reflect
(E) historians in writing about it inevitably reflect

25. Scientists calculated that the asteroid, traveling at 46,000 miles an hour, is on an elliptical path that orbits the Sun once a year and regularly brings it back toward Earth.
(A) hour, is on an elliptical path that orbits the Sun once a year and regularly brings it
(B) hour, is orbiting the Sun once a year on an elliptical path that regularly brings it
(C) hour, once a year orbits the Sun, regularly bringing it on an elliptical path
(D) hour and orbiting the Sun once a year on an elliptical path, regularly bringing it
(E) hour, orbits the Sun on an elliptical path once a year and that regularly brings it

26. Promotions, retirements, deaths, and other actions approved by the board of directors at its May meeting will be reported in the July 15 issue of the company paper.
(A) Promotions, retirements, deaths, and other actions approved by the board of directors at its May meeting will be reported in the July 15 issue of the company paper.
(B) Promotions, retirements, and other actions which have been approved at the May meeting of the board of directors along with deaths, with be reported in the July 15 issue of the company paper.
(C) To be reported in the July 15 issue of the company paper are the promotions, retirements, deaths, and other actions which were approved at the board of directors' May meeting.
(D) Meeting in May, the promotions, retirements, and other actions approved by the board of 
directors, including obituaries, will be reported in the July 15 issue of the company paper.
(E) The July 15 issue of the company paper will report on promotions, retirements, and other actions approved by the board of directors at its May meeting; the paper will also include obituaries.

27. The labor agreement permits staff reductions through attrition with increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement program for speeding it up.
(A) attrition with increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement program for speeding it up
(B) attrition and provides increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement program to speed the attrition process
(C) attrition, which will be speeded up by providing increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement program
(D) attrition, which, by their providing increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement
program, will speed the process
(E) attrition, which provides increased pension benefits and a special early-retirement program for speeding the attrition process

28.Water and resource management problems will be at the head of the legislature's list of concerns for the coming session.
(A) Water and resource management problems
(B) Problems of managing water and resources
(C) Problems in the management of water and other resources
(D) Problems of water and other resource management
(E) Resource management problems, including water.

29. Once common throughout the Western plains, black-footed ferrets are thought to have declined in number as a result of the poisoning of prairie dogs, their prey.
(A) black-footed ferrets are thought to have declined in number as
(B) it is thought that the decline in number of black-footed ferrets is
(C) the decline in the number of black-footed ferrets is thought of as
(D) that black-footed ferrets have declined in their numbers is thought to be
(E) the numbers of the black-footed ferret are thought to have declined as

30. Citing evidence that the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere has increased more than seven percent in the last 30 years, many scientists have expressed a fear of destroying forests and 
continued use of fossil fuels will cause an irreversible shift in Earth's climatic pattern.
(A) many scientists have expressed a fear of destroying forests and continued use of
(B) many scientists have expressed a fear that destruction of forests and continued use of
(C) many scientists have expressed a fear that destruction of forests and continually using
(D) a fear that many scientists have expressed is that destroying forests and continually using
(E) a fear that many scientists have expressed is that destruction of forests and continual using of

31. Prompted by new evidence that the health risk posed by radon gas is far more serious than was
previously thought, property owners are being advised by authorities to test all dwellings below the third floor for radon gas and to make repairs as needed.
(A) property owners are being advised by authorities to 
(B) property owners are advised by authorities that they should
(C) authorities are advising property owners to
(D) authorities are advising property owners they
(E) authorities' advice to property owners is they should


KEY: CADDC ABDAA BADEB BCBCE EDAEB EBCAB C

 

    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?2?? 

17. There has been a 30-fold increase in the incidence of malaria caused by increasing mosquito resistance against pesticides.
(A) increase in the incidence of malaria caused by increasing mosquito resistance against
(B) increase in the incidence of malaria because of increasing resistance of mosquitoes to
(C) increasing malaria incidence because of increasing resistance of mosquitoes to
(D) incidence of malaria increase caused by increasing mosquito resistance against
(E) incidence of malaria increase because of increased mosquito resistance to

18.Aging is a property ofJ1animakthat reach a fixed size at maturity, and the variations in life spans among different species are far greater as that among individuals from the same species: a fruit fly is ancient at 40 days, a mouse at 3years, a horse at 30, a man at 100, and some tortoises at 150.
(A)among different species are far greater as that among individuals from
(B)among different species are far greater than that among individuals from
(C)among different species are far greater than those
(D)between different species are far more than that between individuals of
(E)between different species are greater by far than is that between individuals from

19.The herbicide Oryzalin was sti11 being produced in 1979, three years after the wives of workers producing the chemical in Rensselaer, New York, were found to have borne children with heart defects or miscarriages, and none of their pregnancies was normal.
(A) to have borne children with heart defects or miscarriages, and none of their pregnancies was
(B) to gave had children born with heart defects or miscarriages, and none of the pregnancies was
(C) either to have had children with heart defects or miscarriages, without any of their pregnancies being
(D) either to have had miscarriages or to have borne children with heart defects; none of the pregnancies was
(E) either to have had miscarriages or children born with heart defects, without any of their pregnancies being 

20. Never before in the history of music have musical superstars been able to command so extraordinary fees of the kind they do today?
(A)so extraordinary fees of the kind they do today
(B)so extraordinary fees as they are today
(C)such extraordinary fees as they do today
(D)such extraordinary fees of the kind today's have
(E)so extraordinary a fee of the kind they can today

21. As it becomes more frequent to have spouses who both work outside the home, companies are beginning to help in finding new employment for the spouses of transferred employees.
(A)it becomes more frequent to have spouses who both work out side the home
(B)it becomes more frequent to have couples both working outside the home
(C)it becomes more common that both husband and wife should be working outside the home
(D)it becomes more common for both husband and wife to work outside the home
(E)coup1es in which6oth of the spouses working outside the home become more common

22. Like the one reputed to live in Loch Ness, also an inland lake connected to the ocean by a river, inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain claim sightings of a long and narrow "sea monster." 
(A) Like the one reputed to live in Loch Ness, also an inland lake connected to the ocean by a river, inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain claim sightings of a long and narrow "sea monster."
(B)Inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain claim sightings of a long and narrow "sea monster" similar to the one reputed to live in Loch Ness, which, like Lake Champlain, is an inland lake connected to the ocean by a river.
(C)Inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain claim sightings of a long and narrow "sea monster" similar to Loch Ness's, which, like Lake Champlain, is an inland lake connected to the ocean by a river.
(D)Like Loch Ness, s reputed monster, inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain, also an in1and 1ake connected to the ocean by a river, claim sightings of a 1ong and narrow"sea monster?"
(E)Similar to that reputed to live in Loch Ness, inhabitants of the area around Lake Champlain , a1an inland lake connected to the ocean by a river, c1aim sightings of a long and narrow"sea monster.

23. Since 1965 there are four times as many Black college students enrolled, and the one million Black people in college today represent 11 percent of all college students.
(A) Since 1965 there are four times as many Black college students enrolled
(B) The enrollment of Black college students was only one fourth in l 965
(C)The enrollment of Black college students has increased four times from l 965 on
(D)Quadrupling since l965, there are now four times as many Black college students enrolled
(E)The enrollment of Black college students has quadrupled since 1965

24.A common disability in test pilots is hearing impairment, a consequence of sitting too close to large jet engines for long periods of time.
(A)a consequence of sitting too close to large jet engines for long periods of time
(B)a consequence from sitting for long periods of time too near to large jet engines
(C)a consequence which resulted from sitting too close to large jet engines for long periods of time
(D)damaged from sitting too near to large jet engines for long periods of time
(E)damaged because they sat too close to large jet engines for long periods of time

25. Europe's travel industry is suffering as a result of a sluggish economy, a stretch of bad weather, as well as the chilling effects of terrorist activity that is persistent.
(A)as well as the chilling effects of terrorist activity that is persistent
(B)and the cm11ing effect of terrorist activity that is persistent
(C)but persistent terrorist activity has had a chilling effect too
(D)and the chilling effects of persistent terrorist activity
(E)as well as the chilling effects of terrorist of terrorist activity that persists

26. Opening with tributes to jazz-age divas like Bessie smith and closing with Koko Taylor's electrified gravel-and-thunder songs,the program will trace the blues' vigorous matriarchal line over more than 50 years.
(A)the program will trace
(B)the program s6a11 trace
(C)there will be a program tracing
(D)it is a program that traces
(E) it will be a program tracing

27. In 1929 relatively small declines in the market ruined many speculators having bought on margin; they had to sell, and their selling pushed other investors to the brink.
(A)specu1ators having bought on margin; they had to sell,and 
(B)specu1ators who had bought on margin; having had to sell,
(C)speculators who had bought on margin; they had to sell, and 
(D)specu1ators, those who bad bought on margin;these speculators had to sell, and
(E)speculators, who, having bought on margin and having to sel1,

28. The mistakes children make in learning to speak tell linguists more about how they learn language than the correct forms they use.
(A) how they learn language than
(B) how one learns language than 
(C) how children learn language than do
(D) learning language than
(E) their language learning than do 

29. Building 1arge new hospitals in the bistate area would constitute a wasteful use of resources, on the basis of avoidance of duplicated facilities alone.
(A)on the basis of avoidance of duplicated facilities alone
(B)on the grot1nds of avoiding duplicated facilities alone
(C)solely in that duplicated facilities should be avoided
(D)whi1e the duplication of facilities should be avoided
(E)if on1y because the duplication of facilities should be avoided

30. Freedman's survey showed that people living in small towns and rural areas consider themselves no happier than do people living in big cities.
(A) no happier than do people living
(B) not any happier than do people living
(C) not any happier than do people who live
(D) no happier than are people who are living
(E) not as happy as are people who live

31.It may someday be worthwhile to try to recover uranium from seawater, but at present this process is prohibitively expensive.
(A)It may someday be worthwhile to try to recover uranium from seawater
(B)Someday, it may be worthwhile to try and recover uranium from seawater
(C)Trying to recover uranium out of seawater may someday be worthwhile
(D)To try for the recovery of uranium out of seawater may someday be worthwhile
(E)Recovering uranium from seawater may be worthwhile to try to do someday

32. The underlying physica1 principles that control the midair gyrations of divers and gymnasts are the same as the body orientation controlling astronauts in a weightless environment.
(A)as the body orientation controlling
(B)as the body orientation which controls
(C)as those controlling the body orientation of
(D)ones to control the body orientation of
(E)ones used in controlling the body orientation of

33.The spraying of pesticides can be carefully planned, but accidents, weather conditions that could not be foreseen, and pilot errors often cause much larger deposits of spray than they had anticipated. 
(A)weather conditions that could not be foreseen,and pilot errors often cause much larger deposits of spray than they had
(B)weather conditions that cannot be foreseen, and pilot errors often cause much larger deposits of spray than
(C)unforeseeable weather conditions, and pilot errors are the cause of much larger deposits of spray than they had
(D)weather conditions that are not foreseeable,and pilot errors often cause much larger deposits of spray than 
(E)unforeseeable weather conditions, and pilot errors often cause much larger deposits of spray than they had

34.To read of Adams' lengthy separation from her family, her difficult travels, and her constant battles with illness is to fell intensely how harsh life was even for the so-called aristocracy of Revolutionary times.
(A)To read of
(B)Reading about 
(C)Having read about 
(D)Once one reads of 
(E)To have read of 

35. A star wil1 compress itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole after it passes through a red giant stage, depending on mass.
(A)A star will compress itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole after it passes through a red giant stage, depending on mass
(B)After passing through a red giant stage, depending on its mass, a star will compress itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole?
(C)After passing through a red giant stage, a star's mass will determine if it compresses itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole
(D)Mass determines whether a star, after passing through the red giant stage, will compress itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole
(E)The mass of a star, after passing through the red giant stage, will determine whether it compresses itself into a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole

36.In the main, incidents of breakdowns in nuclear reactors have not resulted from lapses of high technology but commonplace inadequacies in plumbing and wiring.
(A)not resulted from lapses of high technology but 
(B)resu1ted not from 1apsesdhigh technology but from
(C)resu1ted from 1apses not of high technology but have stemmed from
(D)resulted from lapses not of high technology but have stemmed from
(E)resu1ted not from lapses of high technology but have stemmed from 

37. Seeming to be the on1y organization fighting for the rights of poor people in the South, Hosea Hudson,a 1aberer in Alabama,joined the Communist party in 1931.
(A)Seeming to be
(B)As
(C)In that they seemed
(D)Since it seemed
(E)Because it seemed to be

38. Although many art patrons can readi1v differentiate a good debenture from an undesirable one, they are much less expert in distinguishing good paintings and poor ones, authentic art and fakes.
(A)much less expert in distinguishing good paintings and poor ones, authentic art and
(B)far less expert in distinguishing good paintings from per ones, authentic art from
(C)much less expert when it comes to distinguishing good paintings and per ones, authentic art from
(D)far less expert in distinguishing good paintings and poor ones, authentic art and
(E)far less the expert when it comes to distinguishing between good painting, poor ones, authentic art, and

39.Rules banning cancer-causing substances from food apply to new food additives and not to natura1 constituents of food because their use as additives is entirely avoidable?
(A)their use as additives is
(B)as additives, their use is
(C)the use of such additives is
(D)the use of such additives are
(E)the use of them as additives is

40. The average weekly wage near1y doub1ed in the l970' s, rising from $ 114 to $ 220, yet the average worker ended the decade with a decrease in what their pay may buy. 
(A) with a decrease in what their pay may buy
(B) with what was a decrease in what they were able to buy
(C)having decreased that which they could buy
(D) decreasing in purchasing power
(E) with a decrease in purchasing power

41. Since chromosome damage may be caused by viral infections, medical x-rays, and exposure to sunlight,it is important that the chromosomes of a population to be tested for chemically induced damage be compared with those of a control population.
(A)to be tested for chemically induced damage be compared with
(B)being tested for damage induced chemically are compared with
(C)being tested for chemically induced damage should be compared to
(D)being tested for chemically induced damage are to be compared to
(E)that is to be tested for chemically induced damage are to be comparable with 

42. The suspect in the burglary was advised of his right to remain silent, told he could not leave, and was interrogated in a detention room.
(A)of his right to remain silent, told he could not leave, and was
(B)of his right to remain silent, told he could not leave, and 
(C)his right to remain silent and that he could not leave and
(D)that he had a right to remain silent, could not leave, and was
(E)that he had a right to remain silent, that he could not leave, and was

43. The United States petroleum industry's cost to meet environmental regulations is projected at ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum by the end of the decade. 
(A) The United States petroleum industry's cost to meet environmental regulations is projected at ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum by the end of the decade
(B) The United States petroleum industry's cost by the end of the decade to meet environmental regu1ations is estimated at ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum
(C)By the end of the decade, the United States petroleum industry's cost of meeting environ mental regulations is projected at ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum
(D) To meet environmental regulations, the cost to the United States petroleum industry is estimated at ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum by the end of the decade.
(E)It is estimated that by the end of the decade the cost to the United 5tates petroleum industry of meeting environmental regulations will be ten percent of the price per barrel of refined petroleum.

44.The relationship between corpulence and disease remain controversial, although statistics clearly associate a reduced life expectancy with chronic obesity.
(A) remain controversial, although statistics clearly associate a reduced life expectancy with
(B) remain controversial, although statistics clearly associates a reduced life expectancy with
(C) remain controversial, although statistics clearly associates reduced life expectancy to
(D) remains controversial, although statistics clearly associate a reduced life expectancy with
(E) remains controversial, although statistics clearly associates reduced life expectancy to

45. If industrial pollution continues to deplete the ozone layer, the resulting increase in ultraviolet radiation wil1 endanger human health, causing a rise in the incidence of skin cancer and eye disease, and perhaps even threatening global ecological systems.
(A) and perhaps even threatening
(B) and may even threaten 
(C) and even a possible threat to
(D) as well as possibly threatening
(E) as well as a possible threat to

46. Quasars are so distant that their light has taken billions of years to reach the Earth; consequently,we see them as they were during the formation of the universe.
(A)we see them as they were during
(B)we see them as they had been during
(C)we see them as if during
(D) they appear to us as they did in
(E)they appear to us as though in

47.Unlike that of the Native Americans of British Columbia,the Plains,and the Southwest, those of Puget Sound lived in relatively small, autonomous villages.
(A) Unlike that of
(B) Unlike those of 
(C) Unlike
(D) In contrast to that of
(E) Dissimilar to

??:BCDCD BEADA CCEAA CBADB EBCEA BEDBA C
 

    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?1?? 

1.Added to the increase in hourly wages requested last July, the railroad employees are now seeking an expanded program of retirement benefits.
(A)Added to the increase in hourly wages requested last Ju1y,the railroad employee are now seeking an expanded program of retirement benefits.
(B)Added to increase in hour1y wages which had been requested last July,the employees of the railroad are now seeking an expanded program of retirement benefits.
(C)The railroad employees are now seeking an expanded program of retirement benefits added to the increase in hourly wages that were requested last July. 
(D)In addition to the increase in hourly wages that were requested last July, the railroad employees retirement benefits.
(E)In addition to the increase in hourly wages requested last July, the employees of the railroad are now seeking an expanded program of retirement benefits.

2.Child prodigies are marked not so much by their skills but instead by the fact that these skills are fully developed at a very early age.
(A) but instead
(B) rather than
(C) than
(D) as
(E) so much as

3. The department defines a private passenger vehicle as one registered to an individual with a gross weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
(A)as one registered to an individual with a gross weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
(B)to be one that is registered to an individual with a gross weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
(C)as one that is registered to an individual and that has a gross weight of less than 8,000 pounds.
(D)to have a gross weight less than8,000 pounds and being registered to an individual
(E)as having a gross weight of less than 8,000 pounds and registered to an individual

4.Urban officials want the census to be as accurate and complete as possible for the reason that the amount of low-income people in a given area affect the distribution of about fifty billion dollars a year in federal funds.
(A)for the reason that the amount of low-income people in a given area affect
(B)for the reason because the amount of low-income people in a given area effects
(C)in that the amount of low-income people in given areas effect
(D)because the number of low-income people in a given area area affects
(E)because the numbers of low-income people in given areas effects

5. After the Arab conquest of Egypt in A.D. 640,Arabic became the dominant language of the Egyptians, replacing older languages and writing systems.
(A)became the dominant language of the Egyptians, replacing older languages
(B)became the dominant language of the Egyptians,replacing languages that were older
(C)becomes the dominant language of the Egyptians and it replaced older languages
(D)becomes the dominant language of the Egyptians and it replaced languages that were older
(E)becomes the dominant language of the Egyptians,having replaced languages that were older

6.The use of gravity waves, which do not interact with matter in the way electromagnetic waves do, hopefully will enable astronomers to study the actual formation of black holes and neutron stars.
(A)in the way electromagnetic waves do,hopeful1y will enable
(B)in the wav electromagnetic waves do l wil1,it is hoped,enable
(C)like electromagnetic waves, hopefully will enable
(D)like electromagnetic waves, would enable,hopefully
(E)such as electromagnetic waves do, will, it is hoped, enable

7.If a single strain of plant is used for a given crop over a wide area, a practice fostered by modern seed-marketing methods, it increases the likelihood that the impact of a single crop disease or pest will be disastrous.
(A)If a single strain of plant is used for a given crop over a wide area,a practice fostered by modern seed-marketing methods,it
(B)If a single strain of plant is used for a given crop over a wide area, as is fostered by modern seed-marketing methods, it
(C)A practice fostered by modern seed-marketing methods, a single strain of plant used for a given crop over a wide area
(D)A single strain of plant used for a given crop over a wide area, a practice fostered by modern seed-marketing methods,
(E)The use of a single strain of plant for a given crop over a wide area, a practice fostered by modern seed-marketing methods, 

8.A majority of the international journalists surveyed view nuclear power stations as unsafe at present but that they wil1,or could,be made sufficiently safe in the future?
(A)that they wil1,or could,
(B)that they would,or could,
(C)they will be or could,
(D)think that they will be or could
(E)think the power stations would or could

9. A controversial figure throughout most of his public life, the Black leader Marcus Garvey advocated that some Blacks return to Africa, the land that, to him, symbolized the possibility of freedom?
(A)that some Blacks return to Africa, the land that,to him, symbolized the possibility of freedom 
(B)that some Blacks return to the African land symbolizing the possibility of freedom to him
(C)that some Blacks return to Africa which was the land which symbolized the possibility of freedom to him
(D)some B1ack's returning to Africa which was the land that to him symbolized the possibility of freedom
(E)some B1ack's return to the land symbolizing the possibility of freedom to him,Africa

10. The fear of rabies is well founded; few people are known to recover from the disease after the appearance of the clinical symptoms.
(A)few people are known to recover from the disease after the appearance of the clinical symptoms.
(B)few people are known to have recovered from the disease once the clinical symptoms have appeared
(C)there are few known people who have recovered from the disease once the clinical symptoms have appeared
(D)after the clinical symptoms appear,there are few known people who have recovered from the disease 
(E)recovery from the disease is known for only a few people after the clinical symptoms appear

l1.The growth of the railroads led to the abolition of local times, which was determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and differing from city to city, and to the establishment of regional times.
(A)which was determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and differing
(B)which was determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and which differed
(C)which were determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and differing
(D)determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and differed
(E)determined by when the sun reached the observer's meridian and differing

12. Although partially destroyed, the archaeologists were able to infer from what remained of the inscription that the priest Zonainos was buried in the crypt.
(A)Although partially destroyed,the archaeologists were able to infer
(B)Although partial1y destroyed, the archaeologists had inferred
(C)Although it had been partial1y destroyed, the archaeologists were able to infer 
(D)Partial1y destroyed though it had been, the archaeologists had been able to infer
(E)Destroyed partially, the archaeologists were able to infer

13.For all his professed disdain of such activities, Auden was an inveterate literary gossip.
(A)For all his professed disdain of such activities 
(B)Having always professed disdain for such activities
(C)All such activities were,he professed disdained and
(D)Professing that all such activities were disdained
(E)In spite of professions of disdaining all such activities

14.The earnings of women are well below that of men in spite of educational differences that are diminishing between the sexes.
(A)well below that of men in spite of educational differences that are diminishing
(B)much below that Of men's despite educational differences diminishing
(C)much below men in spite of diminishing educational differences
(D)well below those of men in spite of diminishing educational differences
(E)below men's despite their educational differences hat are diminishing

15.Acid rain and snow result from the chemical reactions between industrial emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides with atmospheric water vapor to produce highly corrosive sulfuric and nitric acids.
(A)with atmospheric water vapor to produce highly corrosive sulfuric and nitric acids
(B)with atmospheric water vapor producing h igh1y corrosive sulfuric and nitric acids
(C)and atmospheric water vapor which has produced highly corrosive sulfuric and nitric acids
(D)and atmospheric water vapor which have produced sulfuric and nitric acids which are highly corrosive
(E)and atmospheric water vapor to produce highly corrosive sulfuric and nitric acids

16. It is characteristic of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, as of virtually every great American museum the taste of local collectors has played at least as large a part in the formation of their collections as has the judgments of the art historian. 
(A) of virtually every great American museum, the taste of local collectors has played at least as large a part in the formation of their collections as has
(B) of virtual1y every great American museum, that the taste of local collectors has played at 1east as large a part in the formation of their collections as has
(C) it is of virtually every great American museum,that the taste of local collectors has played at least as large a part in the formation of its collections as have
(D) it is of virtual1y every great American museum,that the taste of local collectors have played at least as large a part in the formation of its collections as have
(E) it is of vlrtual1y every great American museum,the taste of local collectors has played at least as large a part in the formation of its collections as has

??:EDCDA BEDAB ECADE C
 

