1.

Name of the company: TCS
Date of test/interview: 4,5,6 Sept
people attended from M.Tech.,(CS): 
       CH.RAVIKUMAR,A.RAJAMOHAN,J.JAYAKUMAR
About the company: Junta company 
		   3 year bond
		   largest S/W firm in india
		   revenue of 560 Crores
		   They claim to work in all fields.
		   They are emphasising that they are not just COBOL 
		   company they do other good things also.
		   Place of posting can be any where.
		   three to four months training .The training
		   is in one of the following places .
		   Delhi,Madras,Bombay.
		   Pay is BAsic:6500
			  HRA:30% of the basic
			  Medical :31000Rs
			  PF:10%
			  etc.
people screened for interview: Ch.Ravi kumar,J.Jaya kumar,A.Raja mohan
people selected from M.Tech., (CS): 
	 J.JAYAKUMAR
2.

Name of the company: Infosys Technologies Ltd. Bangalore
Date of test/interview: 10,11 Sept
people attended from M.Tech.,(CS): 9
	 CH.RAVIKUMAR,A.RAJAMOHAN,M.RAVEENDRA BABU,M.KEDAR PRABHAKAR,
	 SANDEEP SINGH,NAVEEN K. THYAGI,N.D.P.RAO,ARVIND KUMAR,
	 M.RAVI KUMAR.
About the company: Turnover 900+ million rupees
		   1165 personnel
		   main office in kreonics city, Ba.
		   They work in
		    Distribution
		    Banking & Finance
		    Manufacture
		    Communications
		    Insurance
            85% of their turnover is in S/W exports.Apart from that
	    they have some packages like BANCS2000
	    They market some products also.
	    They have ISO9000 certification
	    They have excellent facilities in their bangalore office.
	    They are planning to expand .
	    avg. age is 24 yrs in the company.
	    1 year bond and no money involved.
	    Pay is :Rs10,577 p.m. (GROSS)
people screened for interview: Naveen kumar Thyagi,M.Ravi kumar
people selected: None from CS Dept.

The question paper what ever we remember:

1.My neighbour has seven children.Every brother has equal no. of 
brothers and siters ,but each sister has twice as many brothers 
as sisters?
Ans: 4,3
2.There are 11 more animals than birds in a pet shop.If there are
as many birds as animals and if there are as many animals as birds
the no. of legs is 4/5 of the original.Howmany birds and animals 
are there?
Ans: 22,11
3.one soap can be made out of the scraps obtained while preparing
11 soaps.How many soaps can be prepared out of the scrap obtained 
out of 251 soaps.(Take all possibilities)
Ans: 25
4.Find out the five digit number whose first digit is three times
that of it's fifth digit,the fourth digit is four more than the 
second digit,the third digit is three less than the second digit,
and there are 3 pairs of digits such that each sum is 11?
Ans: 65292
5.  2XX
    3XX
    ---
    5XX
   X4X
  XX3
  -------
  XXXXX
  -------
  Find out the X's and seven is not there in the calculation.

Ans: 281x332
6.There are 5 burglars and once went to a bakery to rob it obviously
The first guy ate 1/2 of the total bread and 1/2 of the bread.
The second guy ate 1/2 of the remaining and 1/2 of the bread.
The third guy ,fourth guy and fifth guy did the same.After fifth 
guy there is no bread left out.How many bread are there?
Ans:31
7.The main line train starts at 5.00AM and the harbour line train
starts at 5.02AM.Each train has the frequency of 10 minutes.If a 
guy goes in the morning at a random time what is the probability
of he getting main line train?
Ans: 0.8
8.There is 66x33m rectangular area .Ram is 11/8 times faster than
Krishna.Both of them started walking at opposite ends and they 
met at some point then,Ram said "See you in the other end"Then
they continued walking.After some time Ram thought he will have tea
so he turned back walked back 15 meters then he changed his mind
again and continued walking .How much Krishna has travelled by 
the time they meet?
9.A farmer has C chickens.A sack of feed comes for 9 days.As the 
feed cost is increasing the farmer sells some chickens and retains
12 chicken.If he reduces the feed quantity by 10% .Then he observes
that the feed comes for 30 days.What is C?
Ans:36
10.Escalator Problem.
A person walking takes 26 steps to come down on a escalator and it
takes 30 seconds for him for walking.The same person while running
takes 18 second and 34 steps.How many steps are there in the escalator?
Ans:46

Anal Paper:
1. There are nine cards arranged in three rows and three columns.
Each row contains atleast one green card.There  are three yellow
corners.Red is either in the first row or second row.There are
2 greens in the 3rd column and 2 blues in the second row.What is
the arrange ment of the cards
Ans: Y R G
     B B G
     Y G Y
2. There are eight cards.Each card has colour on both sides.There
are 2 blue 2 red 2 green 2 yellow.
Name of the company: Ramco Systems Ltd.
Date of interview/test: 12/9/96 ,13/9/96.
People attended from mtech: Naveen kumar thyagi, ch.ravikumar, n.durga prasada rao, ravindran, rajamohan.
People attended from ms: salome jacob and Radha krishnan.

About the company:
It is a company started in 1989 by Ramco group of companies
It has some 950 personnel working. It is a madras based company. Their's is the only product based company in india. Their product is called Ramco Marshall 
It is based on client-server architecture and the front end for that is MS-Windows.
Their workareas are as follows:
Client-Server Computing
GUI
RDBMS
Distributed Computing(This is jargon)
Work Flow
Business Objects
EDI(Electronic Data Interchange)

They have an allience with MS and Monitoring Technologies,USA.
They believe in localising operations and Global marketing(Official way of saying we won't send you abroad)
Pay Package:Rs.1.44 lac per annum.
Take home is 9,400 Rs.
People screened for interview: Salome Jacob,Naveen kumar Thyagi
People selected from mtech: None
People selected from ms: Salome Jacob.



4.
Name of the company: Computer vision India ltd.
Date of the interview/test:14/9/96
people who attended for test: M.Raveendra Babu,M.Kedar Prabhakar,Arvind Kumar,
A.Rajamohan,ch.ravikumar,m.ravikumar,n.durgaprasada rao,j.gopala krishna
About the company:

 It is started in 1994 in india. It is a subsidary of Computer Vision,US.
 They are mainly known as CAD/CAM Company.They have 220 people right now.
 They have some 250 Sun Sparc workstations in pune.It is a flat organisation.
 Flexi working hours.Among 220 personnel 17 are ph.d's and 110 are mtechs 
 and the rest of them are mca's.
 It is a product based company.It's products include CADDS5,Medusa,DIM3
 Pelorus(Scalable CAD Architecture),Discover(OODevelopment Tool),Discover,
 purify,optegra.They are interested in the following
 Math Tech.
 Design
 Soft.Stage(Mainly maintainance)
 Developing tools(mainly case tools)
 Electronic Product Development(EPD)
Pay Package: Rs1.65lac+free lunch+transportation

 People screened for interview: M.Raveendra Babu,M.Kedar Prabhakar,M.Ravi kumar,
 Arvind kumar,J.Gopala Krishna,N.Durga Prasada Rao

 People selected: M.Raveendra Babu,M.Kedar Prabhakar,M.Ravi kumar,Arvind kumar,J.Gopala Krishna

 5.

 Name of the company: Wipro Infotech,(Global R&D)
Date of the test/interview:15/9/96
People Attended for test from mtech: Anurag Sharma,M.Ranga Rao Choudary,
A.Phani Bhushan
N.V.Shaji,M.Shilpa,Ashish K. Hanwadikar,K.Venkatesh,V.Surya Narayana,
A. Siva Shankar,K.Venu Madhav,Sandeep Singh,Ch. Ravi kumar,A.Raja mohan
People Attended for test from ms: Anantha Raman,Shankara Raman,Rajesh kumar,
Santosh kumar,Gayathri,Renuka,Sudha Kiran,N.Jagdish Babu,Radha krishnan,
Dheena,Vargheese
About the Company:
They are working in 
 Fault Tolerant Technology,
 H/W & ASIC
 Object Oriented Technology,
 Communications&N/W
 OS & Device Drivers

 Database internals
 Client-Server 
 IBM mainframes
 Telecom Software
 Financial Applications

 Their clients include AT&T,UB Networks,Tandem etc.
 Their turnover is around Rs.50Cr and it is expected to be around
 Rs.80 Cr. this time.Expected growth rate is around 30% for 1996-97
Pay Package: Rs.1.57lac per annum
take home Rs.12,000 p.m.
People Scrrened for first interview:
from mtech: mrrc,anurag,phani,akh,venky,shaji,surya,sans,sm
from ms: shankr,araman,krishv,rajesh,skumar,gayatri,renuka,kiran,
People Screened for Second interview:
from mtech: mrrc,anurag,phani,akh,venky,shaji
from ms:shankr,araman,rajesh,skumar,kiran,gayatri
People Selected from mtech: M.Ranga Rao Choudary,Anurag Sharma,
A.Phani Bhushan,Ashish K. Hanwadikar,K.Venkatesh
People Selected from ms: K.N.Anantha Raman,Shankar Raman,B.Rajesh Kumar
I.Santosh Kumar,Sudha Kiran,T.R.Gayatri

6.
Name of the Company: HCL_HP 
Date of test/interview:17/9/96 & 18/9/96
People Attended for test: 
from mtech: Naveen kumar Thyagi,Sandeep Singh,T.C.Vengatesan
N.Durga Prasada Rao,Ch.Ravi kumar,A.Raja mohan,Ravindran,N.V.Shaji,
A.Siva Sankar,K.Venu Madhav
from ms: N.Jagdish Babu,
About the Company: 
It started in 1976.It is located in two places Madras and Noida.It
has two seperate tests for S/W and H/W.
Totally informal and one guy who came here from company was wearing
a T-Shirt and Jeans.
Flexible Working Hours.
NIIT is also a componant of it.
Pay Package: Rs.1.56lac per annum
People Screened for interview: 
from mtech: Naveen Kumar Thyagi
from ms: N.Jagdish Babu
People Selected :
from mtech: Naveen Kumar Thyagi
from ms: N.Jagdish Babu

7.
Name of the company: Oracle
Date of the interview/test: 19/9/96
People who attended test: 
from mtech: V.Surya Narayana,Sandeep Singh,Naveen Kumar Thyagi,
	    N.V.Shaji,Ch.Ravi kumar,J.Gopala krishna,M.Shilpa,
	    A.Raja mohan,A.Siva Sankar,K.Venu Madhav
from ms: N.Jagdish Babu,kalyan,ganesh, ........
About the company:
 It is the second largest S/W firm.Hazzaar Perks.Lot of parties.
 Screwed junta in the written by asking 70% RDBMS,which they never
 quoted as their requirement(they quoted C,UNIX,C++) in their 
 advertisements.They will give ATZ Grindlays Card,Somany loans,
 Weekly booze parties etc etc 
Pay Package: Rs.1.77lac per annum
People Screened for interview: 
from mtech: NONE
from ms: N.Jagdish Babu

8.
Name of the company: InterGraph
Date of the interview/test: 18/9/96
People who attended test:
from mtech: A.Raja mohan
from ms: none
(There is a CG cut off for writing the test)
About the company:
    Initially they said they require only Civil and Mech guys 
They called CS guys with reluctance and they didn't screened 
anyone for interview.

People Screened for interview:
from mtech: NONE
from ms: NONE

9.
Name of the company: MOTOROLA India Electronics Ltd.
Date of the interview/test: 20/9/96 and 21/9/96
People who attended the interview: 
from mtech: Anurag Sharma,K.N.GuruPrasad,A.Phani Bhushan,
	    K.Venkatesh,N.V.Shaji,Sandeep Singh,
	    V.Surya Narayana,K.Venu Madhav,M.Shilpa,
            Ashish K. Hanwadikar,T.C.Vengatesan
from ms: Dheena,SudhaKiran,ganesh
About the Company:(The info here is the opinion expressed by the class members who attended the interview immedieately after the interview. So take note of this and it might have been affected by One of senior who is working comments or what ever it is.Take this into consideration.)
This is the right royal screwing company you can get in indian 
scenario.It seems they put Video Cameras to monitor the moments
of the peopl inside the company.their e-mails will be filtered
and you will be doing only testing.You might have to work minimum
12 hours a day to 14hours a day.No perks or facilities.Work Environment
is good,Salary is less compared to avg.industry standard.Company
stamp is considered to be best.They won't give the details about
their work .Everything is CONFIDENTIAL.In the world 
EVERYBODY IS SUSPECT UNTIL PROVED OTHERWISE
for them.They screwed guys in the interviews saying that you people
will be leaving the company.How will you assure us to the contrary?
is their paining repeated question.It seems among 15 persons
in a team in one year itself 10 persons left.That's why i think 
they are getting pained.Anyway,If you wanna enjoy u'r self this is
not the company for you.If you want the stamp then yes it is the 
company.
PHANI adds
(as on 10/10/96)
That there are no cameras for watching and it seems that he got it confirmed from one of senior working there called BAGI
Pay package: Rs.1.42lac per annum
People Selected finally:
from mtech: K.Venkatesh,A.Phani Bhushan
from ms: Dheena

10

Name of the company: CMC, Hyderabad
Date of test/interview: 23/9/96
People who attended test:
from mtech: K.VenuMadhav,CH.RaviKumar,A.Rajamohan
from ms: NONE
About the company:
It works in Banking S/W,Automation(PORTS,OFFICES etc etc)
It is one of the good Public Sector Company.The experience in this
company is considered to be good. It is sole company which does all
sorts of job for the Govt.Of.India.It is responsible for the Railway
Reservations and all.So basically it is a good company.

Pay Package: Rs.1.26lac per annum(Take home is around 8000 Rs.p.m)
People screened for interview:
from mtech: a.rajamohan
from ms: NONE
People Selected finally:
from mtech:
from ms: NONE

12
Name of the company: Honeywell India Ltd.
Date of test/interview:25/9/96
People who attended test:
from mtech:Sandeep Singh,Ch.RaviKumar,N.DurgaPrasadaRao,K.VenuMadhav,
           V.SuryaNarayana,A.SivaSankar,M.Shilpa,

from ms:
About the company:
 It is  an MNC and is mainly in the development of InFlight S/W and has
very good customers.First one or two years like in any other MNC one 
will be put in testing then only any development work will be given.

Pay Package;
People screened for interview:
from mtech: Sandeep Singh,A.Siva Sankar,A.Raja mohan
from ms: Renuka,Ramakrishnan,Santosh
People selected finally:
from mtech:
from ms:

13
Name of the company: Hughes Software Systems , Gurgaon
People who attended test:
from mtech:N.V.Shaji,ArvindKumar,T.C.Vengatesan,N.Durga Prasada Rao,
	   A.Siva Sankar,V.Surya Narayana,K.Venu Madhav,A.Raja mohan,
	   Sandeep Singh,Ch. Ravi Kumar,R.Ravindran
from ms: Varghese.........
About the company:
Pay Package;Rs.1.85lac per annum
People screened for interview:
from mtech:N.V.Shaji,ArvindKumar,T.C.Vengatesan,N.Durga Prasada Rao,
	   A.Siva Sankar,V.Surya Narayana,K.Venu Madhav,Sandeep Singh
from ms:Varghese....................
People selected finally:
from mtech:N.V.Shaji,ArvindKumar,T.C.Vengatesan,A.Siva Sankar,V.Surya
	   Narayana
from ms: Varghese
14
Name of the company: Future S/W,Madras
Date of test/interview:28/9/96
People who attended test:
from mtech:Sandeep Singh, M.Ranga Rao Choudary,R.Ravindran,N.Durga
	   Prasada Rao,K.Venu Madhav
from ms: Radha krishnan, Renuka
About the company:
Pay Package; Rs. 1.7lac per annum
People screened for interview:
from mtech: Sandeep Singh,M.Ranga Rao Choudary,R.Ravindran,N.Durga 
	    Prasada Rao
from ms: NONE
People selected finally:
from mtech:Sandeep Singh, M.Ranga Rao Choudary
from ms: None
15
Name of the company:
Date of test/interview:
People who attended test:
from mtech:
from ms:
About the company:
Pay Package;
People screened for interview:
from mtech:
from ms:
People selected finally:
from mtech:
from ms:
16
Name of the company:
Date of test/interview:
People who attended test:
from mtech:
from ms:
About the company:
Pay Package;
People screened for interview:
from mtech:
from ms:
People selected finally:
from mtech:
from ms:
17
Name of the company:
Date of test/interview:
People who attended test:
from mtech:
from ms:
About the company:
Pay Package;
People screened for interview:
from mtech:
from ms:
People selected finally:
from mtech:
from ms:
