Rich vs poor at world trade talks 
 
Critics blame wealthy nations for the collapse of talks but developing countries gain clout.

CANCUN, Mexico (Reuters) - Food aid charities and environmental groups blamed the United States and other wealthy nations Monday for the collapse of world trade talks, saying delegates from the rich countries had come to Cancun unprepared to make concessions that would help the poor. 

But as ministers from the 146 member countries of the World Trade Organization (WTO) get set to leave Cancun a day after world trade talks collapsed, at least one group had something to smile about. 

The new alliance of more than 20 developing countries, with Brazil, India and China at its heart, emerged as a major force during five days of ultimately fruitless discussions in the glitzy beach resort and looks set to stay a power in world trade politics. 

The WTO's member countries now need to try to rescue something from the wreckage of the Cancun summit, which had been intended to inject new momentum into the group's stalled global free trade negotiations. 

States remain deeply divided, notably over how far and how fast to reform world farm trade to cut the massive subsidies that rich states pay their farmers and which developing countries say stop them competing. 

The European Union's main trade negotiator, Pascal Lamy, and other top officials were adamant that the search for a deal, which could give a multibillion boost to a sluggish world economy, would continue back at WTO headquarters in Geneva. 

And the new alliance of developing nations was equally firm that its newfound voice would continue to be heard loud and clear. 

"It was not possible to get a concrete result. But we think that we have achieved some important things. Firstly, the respect for our group,'' said Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim. 

The so-called G21 group of developing countries, which represents more than half the world's population and some two-thirds of its farmers, is united by a common commitment to getting the West to unwind subsidies running at nearly $1 billion a day. 

It countered the traditionally huge weight the United States and the European Union wield within the WTO by combining a hard line towards the rich states with calls for more understanding of the problems of the world's poor farmers. 

The talks in the Mexican Caribbean resort collapsed Sunday after developing countries walked out, accusing the wealthy nations of failing to compromise on agriculture and other issues. 

Some world charities said the emergence of a group of poor countries acting as a bloc to press their interests against the United States and the EU was a good sign. 

But they lamented the lost opportunity to start unwinding the massive subsidies rich countries pay to their farmers, which poor countries say keep them poor. 

"Rich countries overplayed their hand and misjudged the strength of feeling and unity of the developing world, who want to make trade fair and have a stake in global prosperity," the aid group Oxfam said in a statement. "Oxfam takes no delight in this failure. It is a missed opportunity." 

Charlie Kronick, chief policy adviser on trade issues for the environmental group Greenpeace, said Cancun proved that the entire international trade system needed to be rethought, with greater attention to the needs of the poor and the environment. 

"The bottom line is that no deal is much better than a very bad deal," he said. 

"They made it very clear at this meeting that these weren't rogue states that were trying to scupper the deal," he said. "The developing countries were sick of being patronized and being told what a fantastic deal this was for them and that they should just take it."
 
