Protecting national interests at Cancun

by Bhagirath Lal Das
 
  
Intense consultations are going on in Geneva to shape the outcome of the Fifth WTO Ministerial Conference to be held in Cancun during September 10-14. These ministerial meetings are held once every two years and have caused great tension and anxiety to developing countries like India. The U.S. and the European Union have pushed their agenda strongly and obtained concessions from the developing countries without giving them any benefit in return. The developing countries get divided during these meetings and are unable to defend their positions. 

There is no reason to believe that any more favourable situation will emerge in Cancun than in the past. Hence India has to be well prepared to guard against having to give any concessions that are against its national interest and to obtain commensurate benefits against whatever concessions it may give. In any multilateral negotiation, giving concessions is not wrong per se; what is, however, not correct is to make concessions without obtaining commensurate benefits in return. Of course, giving concessions without getting any benefit at all is totally wrong. 

Imperatives in agriculture 

Among the various subjects to be covered at the Cancun meeting, two involve India's basic national interests. These are agriculture and investment. In agriculture, the main imperatives in its national perspective are production of adequate food for domestic consumption and sustenance of its rural agricultural economy. 

The former is important because the country should not have any structural dependence on imported food, even though it may import some food now and then for strategic reasons, such as building adequate stocks of a particular food item at a particular time. The latter is significant as nearly two thirds of the population depends on agriculture and it is almost impossible to find alternative means of livelihood for them in other sectors for a long time to come. 

Both these objectives are hit at present by the high non-reducible domestic subsidies (generally known as "green box" subsidies) of the U.S. and the EU. This category of subsidies has been treated in the WTO as non-trade distortive, hence they have complete immunity against reduction. This immunity is indefensible as these subsidies do give financial strength to the farmers of the U.S. and the EU to continue with non-viable agricultural production. To that extent they certainly distort production and trade. These subsidies pose grave dangers to India's two basic national interests mentioned above. Even if India is allowed to maintain high tariffs, they may not provide adequate protection as these countries can raise these subsidies at will, as indeed they have done in the last five years or so. If these subsidies continue and there is no control on them, Indian farmers run the grave risk of severely unfair competition from imports in future. 

Hence it is desirable for India to demand in Cancun that these currently non-reducible subsidies, that is, the green box subsidies, of the major developed countries should be brought under the discipline of reduction and eliminated within a specific time frame. It will not be correct to ignore it and merely insist on retaining its own high tariffs in agriculture. 

Unfortunately, the current draft for consideration at the Cancun meeting prepared by the chairman of the agriculture negotiating group leaves these subsidies untouched. The U.S. and the EU, as usual, have come together and recently given a joint proposal that naturally does not talk about the green box subsidies at all. India has to make special efforts to bring these subsidies under discipline. Fortunately, the new 14 - country developing country alliance that presented a counter proposal on agriculture demands that these green box subsidies be capped and reduced.
 
