    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?5?? 

1. Temporary-employment agencies benefit not only from the increasing demand for clerical workers but also the higher profits made when highly paid professionals are placed, requests for whom have increased in the recent wave of corporate takeovers.
(A) the higher profits made when highly paid professionals are placed, requests for whom
(B) the higher profits that are made in the placement of highly paid professionals, requests for whom
(C) from the requests for highly paid professionals, who make higher profits for the agencies when placed and whose requests
(D) from highly paid professionals, whose placement makes higher profits for the agencies and whose requests
(E) from the higher profits made in placing highly paid professionals, requests for whom 
2. In December of 1987 an automobile manufacturer pleaded no contest to criminal charges of 
odometer tampering and agreed to pay more than $16 million in civil damages for cars that were test-driven with their odometers disconnected.
(A) cars that were test-driven with their odometers disconnected
(B) cars that it had test-driven with their disconnected odometers
(C) its cars having been test-driven with disconnected odometers
(D) having test-driven cars with their odometers disconnected
(E) having cars that were test-driven with disconnected odometers

3. The bank acknowledged that they are and will continue to experience difficulties as it attempts to deal with the precipitous fall of the dollar against the yen and the dislocations reflected in the stock market decline.
(A) they are and will continue to experience difficulties as it attempts 
(B) they are and will continue to experience difficulties as they attempt
(C) it is and will continue to experience difficulties as it attempts
(D) it is experiencing and will continue to experience difficulties as they make an attempt
(E) its difficulties are likely to continue as it attempts

4 In terms of physics, the characteristic feature of the roller coaster is that the cars' potential energy, gained through their being lifted by a chain drive through the Earth's gravity to the top of the first drop, has been converted to kinetic energy by the time the ride ends.
(A) cars' potential energy, gained through their being lifted by a chain drive
(B) cars' potential energy, a gain achieved as they are lifted by a chain drive
(C) potential energy from the cars' being lifted by a chain drive
(D) potential energy of the cars, gained as a chain drive lifts them
(E) potential energy gained by the cars, being achieved while a chain drive lifts them

5. According to some analysts, whatever its merits, the proposal to tax away all capital gains on 
short-term investments would, if enacted, have a disastrous effect on Wall Street trading and employment.
(A) its merits, the proposal to tax
(B) its merits may be, the proposal of taxing
(C) its merits as a proposal, taxing
(D) the proposal's merits, to tax
(E) the proposal's merits are, taxing

6 The key to control over the Eurasian steppes lay in the nomad's ability to use the horse both as a means of transport but also as an effective military tool.
(A) but also as
(B) or as
(C) and as
(D) or 
(E) and also

7 Judge Lois Forer's study asks why do some litigants have a preferred status over others in the use of a public resource, the courts, which in theory are available to all but in fact are unequally distributed among rich and poor.
(A) do some litigants have a preferred status over others in the use of a public resource, the 
courts, which in theory are available to all but in fact are unequally distributed among
(B) some litigants have a preferred status over others in the use of a public resource, the
courts, which in theory are available to all but in fact are unequally distributed between
(C) do some litigants have a preferred status over another in the use of a public resource, the
courts, in theory available to all but in fact are unequally distributed among
(D) some litigants have a preferred status to another in the use of a public resource, the courts, in theory available to all but in fact not equally distributed between
(E) does one litigant have a preferred status over the other in the use of a public resource, the
courts, in theory available to all but in fact they are not equally distributed among

8. As litigation grows more complex, the need that experts explain technical issues becomes more
apparent.
(A) that experts explain technical issues becomes
(B) for experts to explain technical issues became
(C) for experts to explain technical issues becomes 
(D) that technical issues be explained by experts became
(E) that there be explanations of technical issues by experts has become

9. Last spring a Colorado health department survey of 72 playgrounds in private child-care centers 
found unsafe conditions in 95 percent of them and they ranged from splinters to equipment near collapse.
(A) unsafe conditions in 95 percent of them and they ranged
(B) conditions in 95 percent were unsafe and ranging
(C) the ranging of unsafe conditions in 95 percent of them to be
(D) that 95 percent had unsafe conditions ranging 
(E) that 95 percent of them had conditions that were unsafe; the range was

10.The expected rise in the price of oil could be a serious impact to industrialized nations and severely diminish the possibility to have an economy free of inflation.
(A) be a serious impact to industrialized nations and severely diminish the possibility to have
(B) seriously impact on industrialized nations and severely impede the possibility to have
(C) seriously impact on industrialized nations and severely impede the possibility of having
(D) have a serious impact on industrialized nations and severely impede the possibility to have
(E) have a serious impact on industrialized nations and severely diminish the possibility of having

11. Recent excavations suggest that the ancient peoples of the Italian peninsula merged the cult of Damia---a goddess of fertility and the harvest---with Venus.
(A) with Venus
(B) and Venus
(C) with that of Venus
(D) and Venus'
(E) and Venus' cult

12 Since the 1930's aircraft manufacturers have tried to build airplanes with frictionless wings, shaped so smoothly and perfectly that the air passing over them would not become turbulent.
(A) wings, shaped so smoothly and perfectly
(B) wings, wings so smooth and so perfectly shaped
(C) wings that are shaped so smooth and perfect
(D) wings, shaped in such a smooth and perfect manner
(E) wings, wings having been shaped smoothly and perfectly so

13. Some biographers have not only disputed the common notion that Edgar Allan Poe drank to
excess but also questioned whether he drank at all.
(A) have not only disputed the common notion that Edgar Allan Poe drank to excess but also 
questioned whether he drank
(B) not only have disputed the common notion that Edgar Allan Poe drank to excess but also 
over whether he drank
(C) have disputed not only the common notion that Edgar Allan Poe drank to excess but also
whether he may not have drunk
(D) not only have disputed the common notion that Edgar Allan Poe drank to excess but also
questioned whether or not he had drunk
(E) have disputed the common notion not only that Edgar Allan Poe drank to excess but also
questioned whether he may not have drunk

14. According to Interstudy, a nonprofit organization that studies health maintenance organizations
(HMO's), they estimate that, in comparison to last year, when only 36 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's was profitable, this year 73 percent will be.
(A) they estimate that, in comparison to last year, when only 36 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's was profitable, this year 73 percent will be 
(B) compared to only 36 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's being profitable last year, they estimate 73 percent would be this year
(C) only 36 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's were profitable last year; it estimates that this year 73 percent will be
(D) it estimates 73 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's would be profitable this year; last
year that was only 36 percent
(E) only 36 percent of the nation's 607 HMO's last year were profitable, whereas they estimate it this year to be 73 percent

15. The visiting pharmacologists concluded that the present amalgam of Chinese and Western medicine is probably as good, or better than, any system that might be devised for the patients who are treated at the Nan Kai hospital in Tian-jing.
(A) as good, or better than, any system that might be devised for the patients who are
(B) as good, or better, than any system that might be devised for patients being
(C) as good, or better than, any system that might be devised for patients which are being
(D) good as, or even better than, any other system that may be devised for the patients who are
(E) as good as, or better than, any other system that might be devised for the patients

16. One of four babies are now born to mothers aged thirty years or more, compared with just one of six born in 1975.
(A) of four babies are now born to mothers aged thirty years or more, compared with just one 
of six born
(B) of four babies is now born to a mother whose age is thirty of older, compared to just one of six babies who were born
(C) baby in four are now born to mothers aged thirty or older, compared to just one in six
(D) baby in four is now born to a mother aged thirty or older, compared with just one in six
(E) baby in four is now born to mothers aged thirty years or more, compared to just one in six

17. School desegregation has worked well in Buffalo, New York, in part because parents and teachers were given major roles in designing the city's magnet schools, because extra federal funds were allocated to make each school unique, and because the federal judge enforced desegregation orders.
(A) because extra federal funds were allocated to make each school unique
(B) because of the allocation of extra federal funds that make each school unique
(C) because each school is made unique by allocating it extra federal funds
(D) extra federal funds were allocated in order to make each school unique
(E) extra federal funds were allocated for making each school unique

18. Among the Cossacks, vegetable farming was once so despised that it was forbidden on pain of 
death.
(A) so despised that it was
(B) so despised to be
(C) so despised it had been
(D) despised enough that it was
(E) despised enough as to be

19 Researchers have questioned the use of costly and experimental diagnostic tests to identify food allergies, such as milk, that supposedly disrupt normal behavior.
(A) to identify food allergies, such as
(B) to identify food allergies, like 
(C) to identify food allergies, such as to
(D) for identifying food allergies, like that of
(E) for identifying food allergies, such as for

20 Biologists believe that they have found one of the substances that tell individual genes both when to become active and when to remain quiescent in the earliest phases of an embryo's development.
(A) tell individual genes both when to become active and when to remain
(B) tell individual genes both at which time they should become active or should remain
(C) tells individual genes both when to become active or remain
(D) tells individual genes both when to become active or when to remain
(E) will tell an individual gene both about when it should become active and remain

21 Unlike the lives of Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, subjects of other Troyat biographies, Chekhov belongs to the twentieth century, an age of fretfulness and melancholy skepticism.
(A) Unlike the lives of Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, subjects of other Troyat biographies, Chekhov belongs
(B) Chekhov, unlike the other Troyat biographies of Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, belongs
(C) The life of Chekhov, unlike the lives of the subjects of other Troyat biographies, Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, belongs
(D) Chekhov and his life, unlike that of the other Troyat biographies--- Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, belong
(E) The life of Chekhov, unlike that of other Troyat biographies of Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoi, and Dostoevski, belongs

22 The capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Sarajevo's population on the eve of the First World War was 51,919.
(A) Bosnia-Herzegovina, Sarajevo's population
(B) Bosnia-Herzegovina is Sarajevo, whose population
(C) Bosnia-Herzegovina is Sarajevo, with a population
(D) Bosnia-Herzegovina, Sarajevo having a population that
(E) Bosnia-Herzegovina, the population of Sarajevo

23 The growing demand for housing, traffic congestion, and longer commuting trips has all but 
eliminated the cost advantage of owning a house in many rural communities.
(A) The growing demand for housing, traffic congestion, and longer commuting trips has
(B) Traffic congestion, the growing demand for housing, and longer commuting trips has
(C) Longer commuting trips, traffic congestion, and the growing demand for housing has
(D) Traffic congestion, longer commuting trips, and the growing demand for housing have
(E) The growing demand for housing, as well as traffic congestion and longer commuting trips, have

24 The investor who is uncertain about the future is more likely to put money into blue-chip stocks or treasury bills than into gold.
(A) than into
(B) than they do
(C) than they are
(D) as into
(E) as

25 According to the Better Business Bureau, if you fail to advertise the highest price in a range of prices for a service or product as prominently as that of the lowest, it violates the New York Consumer Protection Law.
(A) if you fail to advertise the highest price in a range of prices for a service or product as prominently as that of the lowest, it
(B) if one fails to advertise the highest price in a range of prices for a service or product as prominently as the lowest price, it
(C) failure to advertise the highest price in a range of prices for a service or product as prominently as the lowest
(D) failure to advertise as prominently the highest price in a range of prices for a service or product as the lowest
(E) failing to advertise as prominently the highest price in a range of prices for a service or products as that of the lowest
26 In its most recent approach, the comet Crommelin passed the Earth at about the same distance and in about the same position, some 25 degrees above the horizon, that Halley's comet will pass the next time it appears.
(A) that Halley's comet will pass
(B) that Halley's comet is to be passing
(C) as Halley's comet
(D) as will Halley's comet
(E) as Halley's comet will do

key: EDEDA CBCDE CBACE DAACA CBDAC D

 

    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?6?? 

1. The number of mountain gorillas is declining with such rapidity that the population is one-half in the twenty years between a count made by George Schaller in 1960 and the one made by Dian Fossey in 1980.
(A) with such rapidity that the population is one-half
(B) with such rapidity that the population was one-half
(C) so rapidly the population divided in half
(D) so rapidly that the population was halved
(E) in such rapidity that the population is halved 
2. The ordinance is intended to force householders to separate such hazardous waste like pesticides, batteries, fertilizers, and oil-based paints from the general stream of household trash.
(A) to separate such hazardous waste like
(B) that they should separate such hazardous waste like
(C) separating such hazardous wastes as
(D) that they should separate such hazardous wastes as
(E) to separate such hazardous wastes as

3. The distinctive hereditary tartans that are alleged to be worn since antiquity by members of the Highland clans were in fact designed by Scottish woolen manufacturers in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
(A) that are alleged to be worn
(B) alleged to have been worn
(C) that are worn, it was alleged
(D) alleged as having been worn
(E) that are worn, allegedly

4. According to a panel of health officials, there has been a great deal of confusion in the medical profession about whether obesity is a biological disorder posing serious health risks or a condition more related to appearance than to health.
(A) about whether obesity is a biological disorder posing serious health risks or a condition more related to appearance than to
(B) with respect to obesity being a biological disorder posing serious health risks or if it is related more to appearance than
(C) over whether or not obesity is a biological disorder posing serious health risks or it is a condition more related to appearance than to
(D) about obesity and if it is a biological disorder posing serious health risks or a condition related to appearance more than to
(E) concerning whether obesity is a biological disorder posing serious health risks or it is a condition related to appearance more than

5. A recent study of ancient clay deposits has provided new evidence supporting the theory of global forest fires ignited by a meteorite impact that contributed to the extinction of the dinosaurs and many other creatures some 65 million years ago.
(A) supporting the theory of global forest fires ignited by a meteorite impact that
(B) supporting the theory that global forest fires ignited by a meteorite impact
(C) that supports the theory of global forest fires that were ignited by a meteorite impact and that
(D) in support of the theory that global forest fires were ignited by a meteorite impact and that
(E) of support for the theory of a meteorite impact that ignited global forest fires and

6. As Hurricane Hugo approached the Atlantic coast, it increased dramatically in strength, becoming the tenth most intense hurricane to hit the United States mainland in the twentieth century and most intense since Camille in 1969.
(A) most intense since Camille in 1969
(B) most intense after Camille in 1969
(C) the most intense since Camille in 1969
(D) the most intense after 1969, which had Camille
(E) since 1969 and Camille, the most intense

7. The commission has directed advertisers to restrict the use of the word "natural" to foods that do not contain color or flavor additives, chemical preservatives, or nothing that has been synthesized.
(A) or nothing that has been
(B) or that has been
(C) and nothing that is
(D) or anything that has been
(E) and anything

8. Doctors generally agree that such factors as cigarette smoking, eating rich foods high in fats, and alcohol consumption not only do damage by themselves but also aggravate genetic predispositions toward certain diseases.
(A) not only do damage by themselves but also aggravate
(B) do damage by themselves but also are aggravating to
(C) are damaging by themselves but also are aggravating
(D) not only do damage by themselves, they are also aggravating to
(E) are doing damage by themselves, and they are also aggravating

9. In a plan to stop the erosion of East Coast beaches, the Army Corps of Engineers proposed building parallel to shore a breakwater of rocks that would rise six feet above the waterline and act as a buffer, so that it absorbs the energy of crashing waves and protecting the beaches.
(A) act as a buffer, so that it absorbs
(B) act like a buffer so as to absorb
(C) act as a buffer, absorbing
(D) acting as a buffer, absorbing
(E) acting like a buffer, absorb

10. Senior executives had a larger percentage increase in pay in 1990 than the wages of other salaried workers.
(A) Senior executives had a larger percentage increase in pay in 1990 than
(B) The percentage of senior executives' pay increase in 1990 was larger than for
(C) The 1990 increase in pay for senior executives was larger in terms of percentage than
(D) In 1990 senior executives had a larger pay increase in terms of percentage than did
(E) The pay of senior executives increased in 1990 by a larger percentage than did

11. The Iroquois were primarily planters, but supplementing their cultivation of maize, squash, and beans with fishing and hunting.
(A) but supplementing
(B) and had supplemented
(C) and even though they supplemented
(D) although they supplemented
(E) but with supplementing

12. Affording strategic proximity to the Strait of Gibraltar, Morocco was also of interest to the French throughout the first half of the twentieth century because they assumed that if they did not hold it, their grip on Algeria was always insecure.
(A) if they did not hold it, their grip in Algeria was always insecure
(B) without it their grip on Algeria would never be secure
(C) their grip on Algeria was not ever secure if they did not hold it
(D) without that, they could never be secure about their grip on Algeria
(E) never would their grip on Algeria be secure if they did not hold it

13. Beatrix Potter, in her book illustrations, carefully coordinating them with her narratives, capitalized on her keen observation and love of the natural world.
(A) Beatrix Potter, in her book illustrations, carefully coordinating them with her narratives,
(B) In her book illustrations, carefully coordinating them with her narratives, Beatrix Potter
(C) In her book illustrations, which she carefully coordinated with her narratives, Beatrix Potter
(D) Carefully coordinated with her narratives, Beatrix Potter, in her book illustrations,
(E) Beatrix Potter, in her book illustrations, carefully coordinated them with her narratives and

14. As contrasted with the honeybee, the yellow jacket can sting repeatedly without dying and carries a potent venom that can cause intense pain.
(A) As contrasted with the honeybee
(B) In contrast to the honeybee's
(C) Unlike the sting of the honeybee
(D) Unlike that of the honeybee
(E) Unlike the honeybee

15. The development of a new jumbo rocket that is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration will be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit than the space shuttle and at a lower cost.
(A) The development of a new jumbo rocket that is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration will be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit than the space shuttle and at a lower cost.
(B) The development of a new jumbo rocket is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration and be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit at a lower cost than the space shuttle.
(C) The new development of a jumbo rocket, which is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration, will be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit at a lower cost than the space shuttle.
(D) A newly developed jumbo rocket, which is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration, will be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit than the space shuttle can, and at a lower cost.
(E) A newly developed jumbo rocket, which is expected to carry the United States into its next phase of space exploration, will be able to deliver a heavier load of instruments into orbit than the space shuttle and to cost less.

16. Once they had seen the report from the medical examiner, the investigators did not doubt whether the body recovered from the river was the man who had attempted to escape from the state prison.
(A) did not doubt whether the body recovered from the river was
(B) have no doubt whether the body recovered from the river was
(C) had not doubted that the body recovered from the river was
(D) have no doubt whether the body recovered from the river was that of
(E) had no doubt that the body recovered from the river was that of

17. Contestants in many sports prepare for competition by eating pasta as part of a "carbohydrate-loading " regimen that is supposed to provide quick energy.
(A) prepare for competition by eating pasta as
(B) prepare for competition and eat pasta, which is
(C) prepare for competition by eating pasta because this is
(D) eat pasta to prepare for competing, which is
(E) eat pasta to prepare for competing as

18. His studies of ice-polished rocks in his Alpine home-land, far outside the range of present-day glaciers, led Louis Agassiz in 1837 to propose the concept of an age in which great ice sheets had existed in now currently temperate areas.
(A) in which great ice sheets had existed in now currently temperate areas
(B) in which great ice sheets existed in what are now temperate areas
(C) when great ice sheets existed where there were areas now temperate
(D) when great ice sheets had existed in current temperate areas
(E) when great ice sheets existed in areas now that are temperate

19. More and more in recent years, cities are stressing the arts as a means to greater economic development and investing millions of dollars in cultural activities, despite strained municipal budgets and fading federal support.
(A) to greater economic development and investing
(B) to greater development economically and investing
(C) of greater economic development and invest
(D) of greater development economically and invest
(E) for greater economic development and the investment of

20. Since 1986 enrollments of African Americans, American Indians, and Hispanic Americans in full-time engineering programs in the United States has steadily increased, while the number of other students who enter the field has fallen.
(A) has steadily increased, while the number of other students who enter the field has fallen
(B) has steadily increased, while other students entering the field have declined in number
(C) increased steadily, while there was a decline in the number of other students entering the field
(D) have steadily increased, while the number of other students entering the field has fallen
(E) have steadily increased, while that of other students who enter the field fell


KEYS
1. D 2. E 3. B 4. A 5. B
6. C 7. D 8. A 9. C 10. E
11. D 12. B 13. C 14. E 15. D 
16. E 17. A 18. B 19. A 20. D

 

    
    
  ?? > GMAT > ?? ?7?? 

1. Originally developed for detecting air pollutants, a technique called proton-induced x-ray emission,
which can quickly analyze the chemical elements in almost any substance without destroying it, is
finding uses in medicine, archaeology, and criminology.
(A) Originally developed for detecting air pollutants, a technique called proton-induced x-ray 
emission, which can quickly analyze the chemical elements in almost any substance without 
destroying it,
(B) Originally developed for detecting air pollutants, having the ability to analyze the chemical
elements in almost any substance without destroying it, a technique called proton induced x-ray emission
(C) A technique originally developed for detecting air pollutants, called proton-induced x-ray
emission, which can quickly analyze the chemical elements in almost any substance without destroying it,
(D) A technique originally developed for detecting air pollutants, called proton-induced x-ray 
emission, which has the ability to analyze the chemical elements in almost any substance
quickly and without destroying it,
(E) A technique that was originally developed for detecting air pollutants and has the ability to
analyze the chemical elements in almost any substance quickly and without destroying the 
substance, called proton-induced x-ray emission, 
2. None of the attempts to specify the causes of crime explains why most of the people exposed to the
alleged causes do not commit crimes and, conversely, why so many of those not so exposed have.
(A) have
(B) has
(C) shall
(D) do 
(E) could

3. Computers are becoming faster, more powerful, and more reliable, and so too are modems, they are 
the devices to allow two or more computers to share information over regular telephone lines.
(A) so too are modems, they are the devices to allow
(B) so too are modems, the devices that allow
(C) so too modems, the devices allowing
(D) also modems, they are the devices that allow
(E) also modems, which are the devices to allow

4. A 1972 agreement between Canada and the United States reduced the amount of phosphates that
municipalities had been allowed to dump into the Great Lakes.
(A) reduced the amount of phosphates that municipalities had been allowed to dump
(B) reduced the phosphate amount that municipalities had been dumping
(C) reduces the phosphate amount municipalities have been allowed to dump
(D) reduced the amount of phosphates that municipalities are allowed to dump
(E) reduces the amount of phosphates allowed for dumping by municipalities

5. Among the objects found in the excavated temple were small terra-cotta effigies left by supplicants
who were either asking the goddess Bona Dea's aid in healing physical and mental ills or thanking her for such help.
(A) in healing physical and mental ills or thanking her for such help
(B) in healing physical and mental ills and to thank her for helping
(C) in healing physical and mental ills, and thanking her for helping
(D) to heal physical and mental ills or to thank her for such help
(E) to heal physical and mental ills or thanking her for such help

6. A proposal has been made to trim the horns from rhinoceroses to discourage poachers; the question 
is whether tourists will continue to visit game parks and see rhinoceroses after their horns are 
trimmed.
(A) whether tourists will continue to visit game parks and see rhinoceroses after their 
horns are
(B) whether tourists will continue to visit game parks to see one once their horns are
(C) whether tourists will continue to visit game parks to see rhinoceroses once the animals' horns have been
(D) if tourists will continue to visit game parks and see rhinoceroses once the animals' horns are
(E) if tourists will continue to visit game parks to see one after the animals' horns have been

7. The technical term "pagination" is a process that leaves editors, instead of printers, assemble the 
page images that become the metal or plastic plates used in printing.
(A) is a process that leaves editors, instead of printers, assemble 
(B) refers to a process that allows editors, rather than printers, to assemble
(C) is a process leaving the editors, rather than printers, to assemble
(D) refers to a process which allows editors, but not to printers, the assembly of
(E) has reference to the process leaving to editors, instead of the printer, assembling

8. The black hole has entered the popular imagination as an object too massive that neither light nor 
matter can escape its gravitational pull.
(A) too massive that neither light nor matter can escape its
(B) too massive for either allowing light or matter to escape its
(C) massive enough that either light or matter cannot escape their
(D) so massive that neither light nor matter could escape their
(E) so massive that neither light nor matter can escape its

9. After crude oil, natural gas is the United States second biggest fuel source and supplied almost
exclusively from reserves in North America.
(A) After crude oil, natural gas is the United States second biggest fuel source and supplied almost
exclusively from reserves in North America.
(B) Natural gas, after crude oil the United States second biggest fuel source, supplied almost exclusively from reserves in North America.
(C) Being supplied almost exclusively from reserves in North America, natural gas, the United States second biggest fuel source after crude oil.
(D) Natural gas, the United States' second biggest fuel source after crude oil, is supplied almost exclusively from reserves in North America.
(E) Natural gas is supplied almost exclusively from reserves in North America, being the United 
States' second biggest fuel source after crude oil.

10. The airline industry is cutting its lowest discount fares more widely, more substantially, and earlier 
this year than it normally does at the end of the summer, a time during which travel usually
decreases and the industry uses some lower fares for the attraction of passengers.
(A) during which travel usually decreases and the industry uses some lower fares for the attraction of
(B) during which travel usually decreases and therefore the industry will use some lower fares for the attraction of
(C) in which travel usually decreases and in which the industry therefore uses some lower fares 
attracting
(D) when travel usually decreases and the industry uses some lower fares to attract
(E) when travel usually decreases and therefore the industry will use lower fares for the attraction of

11. The aristocratic values expressed in the writings of Marguerite Yourcenar place her within the 
French classical tradition, as does her passionate interest in history, particularly Roman history.
(A) as does
(B) so do
(C) as do
(D) so is the case with
(E) similarly, does

12. Selling several hundred thousand copies in six months, the publication of "Maple Leaf Rag" in 
1899 was an instant hit, helping to establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime composer.
(A) Selling several hundred thousand copies in six months, the publication of "Maple Leaf Rag" 
in 1899 was an instant hit, helping to establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime composer.
(B) The publication in 1899 of "Maple Leaf Rag" was an instant hit: in six months they sold several hundred thousand copies and it helped establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime composer.
(C) Helping to establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime composer was the publication of
"Maple Leaf Rag" in 1899, which was an instant hit: it sold several hundred thousand copies in six months.
(D) "Maple Leaf Rag" was an instant hit: it helped establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime
composer, published in 1899 and selling several hundred thousand copies in six months.
(E) Published in 1899, "Maple Leaf Rag" was an instant hit, selling several hundred thousand copies in six months: it helped establish Scott Joplin as the preeminent ragtime composer.

13. Because paper of all kinds is the biggest single component of municipal trash, many municipalities
have tried recycling to reduce the cost of trash disposal.
(A) Because paper of all kinds is the biggest single component of municipal trash, many municipalities have tried recycling to reduce the cost of trash disposal.
(B) Because paper of all kinds is the biggest single component in municipal trash, many
municipalities tried to recycle so that the cost of trash disposal is reduced.
(C) Because paper of all kinds are the biggest single components in municipal trash, many 
municipalities have tried to recycle to reduce the cost of trash disposal.
(D) All kinds of paper are the biggest single components of municipal trash, and so many
municipalities have tried recycling to reduce the cost of trash disposal.
(E) All kinds of paper is the biggest single component of municipal trash, so many municipalities
have tried to recycle so that the cost of trash disposal could be reduced.

14. As rare as something becomes, be it a baseball card or a musical recording or a postage stamp, the more avidly it is sought by collectors . 
(A) As rare as something becomes, be it
(B) As rare as something becomes, whether it is
(C) As something becomes rarer and rarer, like
(D) The rarer something becomes, like
(E) The rarer something becomes, whether it is

15. Psychologists now contend that the way adults think and feel are determined as much by their peers 
in early childhood than by their parents.
(A) are determined as much by their peers in early childhood than by their
(B) are determined as much by peers in early childhood as do their
(C) is determined as much by their early childhood peers as by their
(D) have been determined by childhood peers as much as their
(E) was determined as much by one's peers in childhood as by one's

16. Migraine, the most debilitating common form of headache, afflicts perhaps 18 million Americans, 
who collectively lose 64 million workdays a year, and they cost the nation $50 billion in medical 
expenses and lost work time.
(A) year, and they cost the nation $50 billion in medical expenses and lost
(B) year and thus cost the nation $50 billion in medical expenses and lost
(C) year, so as to cost the nation $50 billion in medical expenses and lost
(D) year that costs the nation $50 billion in lost medical expenses and
(E) year, which thus cost the nation $50 billion in lost medical expenses and

17. Like many others of his generation of Native American leaders, Joseph Brant lived in two worlds;
born into an Iroquois community and instructed in traditional Iroquois ways, he also received an
education from English-speaking teachers.
(A) Like many others of his generation of Native American leaders, Joseph Brant lived in two worlds;
(B) Like many others of his generation of Native American leaders, living in two worlds, Joseph
Brant was
(C) Like many another of his generation of Native American leaders, Joseph Brant, living in two
worlds, was
(D) As with many others of his generation of Native American leaders, living in two worlds, Joseph
Brant was
(E) As with many another of his generation of Native American leaders, Joseph Brant lived in
two worlds;

18. Sales of United States manufactured goods to nonindustrialized countries rose to $167 billion in 1992, which is 14 percent more than the previous year and largely offsets weak demand from Europe and Japan.
(A) which is 14 percent more than the previous year
(B) which is 14 percent higher than it was the previous year
(C) 14 percent higher than the previous year's figure
(D) an amount that is 14 percent more than the previous year was
(E) an amount that is 14 percent higher than the previous year's figure

19. All-terrain vehicles have allowed vacationers to reach many previously inaccessible areas, but they have also been blamed for causing hundreds of deaths, injury to thousands, and seriously damaging the nation's recreational areas.
(A) deaths, injury to thousands, and seriously damaging 
(B) deaths and injuring thousands, and serious damage to
(C) deaths, thousands who are injured, as well as seriously damaging
(D) deaths and thousands of injuries, as well as doing serious damage to
(E) deaths, thousands are injured, and they do serious damage to





1. A
2. D
3. B
4. A
5. A
6. C
7. B
8. E
9. D 
10. D 
11. A
12. E
13. A
14. E
15. C 
16. B
17. A
18. E
19. D



 

