
VERBAL SECTION

Directions for questions 1-15:Find the synonyms of the
following words

1. Merry
Ans. Gay,Happy

2. Alienate
Ans. Estrange 

3. Solicit
Ans. To request 

4.Heap
Ans. To pile 

5.Cargo
Ans. Freight 

6.Momentary
Ans. Transient 

7. Volume
Ans.Quantity 

8.Veer
Ans.Diverge 

9.Dispel
Ans.Dissipate 

10.Admonish
Ans.Cautious 

11.Meager
Ans.Scanty 

12.Latitude
Ans.Scope 

13.Latent
Ans.Potential 

14.Covet
Ans.Crave 

15.Discretion
Ans. Prudence 

16.Some of these words came for us. Cajole,Muse




QUANTITATIVE SECTION
1. If two pencils cost 8 cents, then how much do 5
pencils cost?
Ans. 20 cents

2. Some work is done by two people in 24 minutes. One
of them can do this work alone in 40 minutes. How much
time does the second person take to do the same work ?
Ans. 60 minutes 

3. A car is filled with four and half gallons of fuel
for a round trip.If the amount of fuel taken while
going is 1/4 more than the amount taken for coming,
what is the amount of fuel consumed while coming back?
Ans.2 gallons

4. The lowest temperature in the night in a city A is
1/3 more than 1/2 the highest during the day. Sum of
the lowest temperature and the highest temperature is
100 degrees. Then what is the low temp? 
Ans.40 degrees 

5. Javagal, who decided to go to weekened trip should
not exceed 8 hours driving in a day. The average speed
of forward journey is 40 miles/hr.Due to traffic on
sundays, the return journey's average speed is 30 m/h.
How far he can select a picnic spot?
a) 120 miles
b) between 120 and 140 miles 
c) 160 miles 

Ans. 120 miles 

6. A salesperson by mistake multiplied a number and
got the answer as 3, instead of dividing the number by
3.What is the answer he should have actually got? 
Ans. 3

7. A building with height D shadow upto G. What is the
height of a neighbouring building with a shadow of C
feet.
Ans. (C*D)/G

8. A person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by
10 mph. Another person was also fined for exceeding
the same speed limit by twice the same. If the second
person was travelling at a speed of 35 mph, find the
speed limit.
Ans. 15 mph 

9. A bus started from bustand at 8.00am, and after
staying for 30 minutes at a destination, it returned
back to the busstand. The destination is 27 miles from
the busstand. The speed of the bus is 18mph. During
the return journey bus travels with 50% faster
speed.At what time does it return to the busstand? 
Ans. 11.00am 

10. In a mixture, R is 2 parts and S is 1 part. In
order to make S to 25% of the mixture, how much of R
is to be added? 
Ans.One part of R 

11. Wind flows 160 miles in 330 min, for travelling 80
miles how much time does it require? 
Ans. 2 hrs 45 mins

12. With a 4/5 full tank a vehicle can travel 12
miles, how far can it travel with a 1/3 full tank 
Ans. 5 miles 

13. There are two trees in a lawn. One grows at a rate
3/5 of the other in 4 years. If the total growth of
trees is 8 ft. What is the height of the smaller tree
after 2 years 
Ans. 1 1/2 feet

14. Refer to the figure below.A ship started from P
and moves at a speed of I miles per hour and another
ship starts from L and moving with H miles per hour
simultaneously.Where do the two ships meet? 
||---g---||---h---||---i---||---j---||---k---||---l---||
PG H I J K L are the various stops in between denoted
by || . The values g, h, i, j, k, l denote the
distance between the ports.
Ans. Between I and J, closer to J

15. If A is travelling at 72 km per hour on a highway.
B is travelling at a speed of 25 meters per second on
a highway. What is the difference in their speeds in
m/sec.
Ans. 1 m/sec

CRITICAL REASONING SECTION

The critical reasoning section consists of some
passages followed by 4 to 7 questions per passage. The
questions are such that they require ability to read
fast and comprehend. The questions asked in this
section have three choices TRUE, FALSE, CAN'T SAY.
Some examples of questions are given below. Please
note that these passages are not the exact passages
asked. The passages used a good deal of difficult
words which have been removed in this reproduction.
Also the passages appearing in the actual paper are
much lengthier.

Directions: Answer the questions given below the
passage or statement as true, false or can't say.

PASSAGE A: My father has no brothers. He has three
sisters who has two childs each.

Answer 1-5 based on the passage A

1.My grandfather has two sons .
Ans. False 

2. Three of my aunts have two sons
Ans. Can't say

3. My father is only child to his father
Ans. False

4. I have six cousins from my mother side
Ans. Can't say

5. I have one uncle
Ans. Can't say(uncle can be from the mother's side as
well)

PASSAGE B: Ether injected into gallablader to dissolve
colestrol based gallstones. This type one day
treatment is enough for gallstones not for calcium
stones. This method is alternative to surgery for
millions of people who are suffering from this
disease. 

Answer questions 6-9 based on passage B

6.Calcium stones can be cured in oneday 
Ans. False

7. Hundreds of people contains calcium stones
Ans. Can't say

8. Surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones
Ans. True

9. Ether will be injected into the gallbleder to cure
the cholestrol based gall stones
Ans. True

PASSAGE C: Hacking is illegal entry into another
computer. This happens mostly because of lack of
knowledge of computer networking. With networks one
machine can access to another machine.Hacking go about
without knowing that each network is accredited to use
network facility. 

Answer questions 10-12 based on passage B

10. Hackers never break the code of the company which
they work for
Ans. Can't say

11. Hacking is the only vulnerability of the computers
for the usage of the data
Ans. False

12.Hacking is done mostly due to the lack of computer
knowledge 
Ans. False 

PASSAGE C: Alphine tunnels are closed tunnels.In the
past 30 yrs not even a single accident has been
recorded for there is one accident in the rail road
system. Even in case of a fire accident it is possible
to shift the passengers into adjacent wagons and even
the live fire can be detected and extinguished with in
the duration of 30 min. 
Answer questions 13-16 based on passage C

13. No accident can occur in the closed tunnels
Ans. True

14. Fire is allowed to live for 30 min
Ans. False

16. All the care that travel in the tunnels will be
carried by rail shutters.
Ans.True 

PASSAGE D: In the past helicopters were forced to
ground or crash because of the formation of the ice on
the rotors and engines. A new electronic device has
been developed which can detect the watercontent in
the atmosphere and warns the pilot if the temperature
is below freezing temperature about the formation of
the ice on the rotors and wings. 

Answer questions 17-20 based on passage D

17.The electronic device can avoid formation of the
ice on the wings 
Ans.False

18. There will be the malfunction of rotor & engine
because of formation of ice
Ans.True

19. The helicopters were to be crashed or grounded
Ans.True

20. There is only one device that warn about the
formation of ice
Ans.True 

PASSAGE E:In the survey conducted in mumbai out of 63
newly married house wives not a single house wife felt
that the husbands should take equal part in the
household work as they felt they loose their power
over their husbands. Inspite of their careers they opt
to do the kitchen work themselves after coming back to
home. the wives get half as much leisure time as the
husbands get at the week ends. 
Answer questions 21-23 based on passage E
21.Housewives want the husbands to take part equally
in the household
Ans.False

22. Wives have half as much leisure time as the
husbands have
Ans. False

23. 39% of the men will work equally in the house in
cleaning and washing 
Ans. False 

PASSAGE F:Copernicus is the intelligent. In the days
of copernicus the transport and technology development
was less & it took place weeks to comunicate a message
at that time,wherein we can send it through satellite
with in no time.Even with this fast developments it
has become difficult to understand each other.
Answer questions 24-27 based on passage F

24. People were not intelligent during Copernicus days

Ans.False

25. Transport facilities are very much improved in noe
a days 
Ans.Can't say

26. Even with the fast developments of the techonology
we can't live happily.
Ans. Can't say

27. We can understand the people very much with the
development of communication
Ans. False. 

PASSAGE G:Senior managers warned the workers that
because of the intfoductors of japanese industry in
the car market. There is the threat to the
workers.They also said that there will be the
reduction in the purchase of the sales of car in
public.the interest rates of the car will be increased
with the loss in demand. 
Answer questions 28-31 based on passage G

28. Japanese workers are taking over the jobs of
indian industry.
Ans.False

29.Managers said car interests will go down after
seeing the raise in interest rates.
Ans.True

30. Japanese investments are ceasing to end in the car
industry.
Ans. False

31. People are very interested to buy the cars.
Ans.False 

PASSAGE H:In the totalitariturican days,the words have
very much devalued.In the present day,they are
becoming domestic that is the words will be much more
devalued. In that days, the words will be very much
effected in political area.but at present,the words
came very cheap .We can say they come free at cost. 
Answer questions 32-34 based on passage H

32.Totalitarian society words are devalued.
Ans.False

33. Totalitarians will have to come much about words
Ans.True
34. The art totalitatian society the words are used
for the political speeches.
Ans. False

PASSAGE I:There should be copyright for all arts. The
reele has came that all the arts has come under one
copy right society,they were use the money that come
from the arts for the developments . There may be a
lot of money will come from the Tagore works. We have
to ask the benifiters from Tagore work to help for the
development of his works. 
Answer questions 35-39 based on passage I

35. Tagore works are came under this copy right rule.
Ans. False

36. People are free to go to the public because of the
copy right rule.
Ans.Can't say

38. People gives to theater and collect the money for
development.
Ans.Can't say

39. We have ask the Tagore resedents to help for the
developments of art.
Ans.Can't say

1. Depreciation
Ans. Deflation, Depression, Devaluation, fall, slump
in value

2. Deprecate
Ans. Feel and express disapproval of

3. Incentive
Ans. Thing one encourages a person to do something

4. Echelon 
Ans. Level of authority or responsibility 

5. Innovation
Ans.To make changes or introduce new things 

6. Intermittant 
Ans. Externally stopping and then starting 

7. Detrimental
Ans.Harmful

8. Aberration 
Ans. Deviation

9. Conciliation 
Ans.To make less angry or more friendly 

10. Orthodox 
Ans.Conventional or superstitious 

11. Fallible
Ans.Liable to err 

12. Volatile

Ans.Ever changing 

13. Manifestion
Ans.Clear or obvious 

14. Connotation
Ans. Suggest in addition to the fundamental meaning

15. Reciprocal 
Ans. Reverse, Opposite 

QUANTITATIVE SECTION
1. There are 150 weights .Some are 1 kg weights and
some are 2 kg weights. The sum of the weights is
260.What is the number of 1kg weights?
Ans. 40

2. A is driving on a highway when the police fines him
for overspeeding and exceeding the limit by 10
km/hr.At the same time B is fined for overspeeding by
twice the amount by which A exceeded the limit.If he
was driving at 35 km/hr what is the speed limit for
the road?
Ans. 15 kmph

3. A moves 3 kms east from his starting point . He
then travels 5 kms north. From that point he moves 8
kms to the east.How far is A from his starting point?
Ans. 13 kms

4. A car travels 12 kms with a 4/5th filled tank.How
far will the car travel with 1/3 filled tank?
Ans. 5 kms

5. The sum of the digits of a two digit number is 8.
When 18 is added to the number, the digits are
reversed. Find the number?
Ans. 35

6. The cost of one pencil, two pens and four erasers
is Rs.22 while the cost of five pencils, four pens and
two erasers is Rs.32.How much will three pencils,
three pens and three erasers cost?
Ans. 27

7. Fathers age is 5 times his son's age. 4 years back
the father was 9 times older than son.Find the
fathers' present age.
Ans. 40 years

8. What number should be added to or subtracted from
each term of the ratio 17 : 24 so that it becomes
equal to 1 : 2.
Ans. 10 should be subtracted

9. What is the 12th term of the series 2, 5, 8, ....
Ans. 35

10. If 20 men take 15 days to to complete a job, in
how many days can 25 men finish that work?
Ans. 12 days

11. In a fraction, if 1 is added to both the numerator
at the denominator, the fraction becomes 1/2. If
numerator is subtracted from the denominator, the
fraction becomes 3/4. Find the fraction.
Ans. 3/7

12. If Rs.1260 is divided between between A, B and C
in the ratio 2:3:4, what is C's share?
Ans. Rs. 560
13. A shopkeeper bought a watch for Rs.400 and sold it
for Rs.500.What is his profit percentage?
Ans. 25%

14. What percent of 60 is 12?
Ans. 20%

15. Hansie made the following amounts in seven games
of cricket in India: Rs.10, Rs.15, Rs.21, Rs.12,
Rs.18, Rs.19 and Rs.17(all figures in crores of
course).Find his average earnings.
Ans. Rs.16 crore

Word Power
-------------
Admonish : usurp Meager :scanty Alienate : estrange
Merry : gay Brim : Boarder obstinate : stubborn
Pretention:pretentioius Tranquil:serene solicit : urge
subside : wane furtive :stealthy misery : disstress
volume :quantity veer : diverge stiffle :sniths
adhesive : --- Hamper : obstruct belief : conviction
lament : wail to merit :to deserve incentive : ----
inert: passive Baffle : Frustrate Confiscate :
appropriat
Covet : crave Caprice : whim Concur :acquiesce
Cargo :freight Dispel : Scatter Divulge : -----
Discretion: prudence Emancipate : liberate Efface :
obliterate
Hover : linger Heap : to pile Instigate : incite
latitude : scope latent : potential lethergy : stupor
momentary : transient

1. Two pencils costs 8 cents, then 5 pencils cost how
much
(Ans:20 cents).
2. A work is done by the people in 24 min. one of them
can do this work a lonely in 40 min. how much time
required to do the same work for the second person.
(ans:60 min.)
3. A car is filled with four and half gallons of oil
for full round trip. fuel is taken 1/4 gallons mor3 in
going than coming. what is
the fiel consumed in coming up? (2 gallons)
4. low temperature at the night in a city is 1/3 more
than ½ hinge as higher temperature in a day. sum of
the low temp and
higherst temp is 100C. then what is the low
temperature (40 C)
5. A person who decided to go weekend trip should not
exceed 8 hours driving in a day Average speed of
forward journy is 40 mph. due to traffic in sundays,
the return journey average speed is 30 mph. how far he
can select a picnic spot (120 miles).
6. A sales person multiplied a number and get the
answer is 3, instead of that number divided by 3. what
is th answer he actually has to get ? (1/3).
7. A ship started from port and moving with I mph and
another ship started from L and moving with H mph. At
which place these two ships meet ? ( Ans is between I
and J and close to J)

!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!
port G H I J K L

8. A building with hight D ft shadow upto G A
neighbour building with what height shadow C ft is (B
ft.)

!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!
A B C D E F G H

9. A person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by
10 mph.Another person was also fined for exceeding the
same speed limit by twice the same. If the second
person was travelling at a speed of 35 mph.find the
speed limit (15 mph)

10. A bus started from bustand at 8.00a m and after 30
min staying at destination, it returned back to the
bustand. the destination is 27 miles from the bustand.
the speed of the bus 50 percent fast speed. at what
time it retur4ns to the bustand (11.00)
11.in a mixture, R is 2 parts, S is 1 part. in order
to make S to 25% of the mixture, howmuch R is to be
added ( one part).
 12. wind flows 160 miles in 330 min, for 80 miles how
much time required.
13. with 4/5 full tank vehicle travels 12 miles, with
1/3 full tank how much distance travels ( 5 miles).
14. two trees are there. one grows at 3/5 of the
other. in 4 years, total growth of trees is 8 ft. what
growth will smaller tree will
have in 2 years. (<2ft) 
15. A storm will move with a velocity of towords the
center in hours. At the same rate how much far will it
move in hrs.
(but Ans is 8/3 or 2 2/3).

Critical Reasoning

1. My father has no brothers. he has three sisters who
has two childs each.
1> my grandfather has two sons (f)
2> three of my aunts have two sons(can't say)
3> my father is only child to his father(f)
4> i have six cousins from my mother side(f)
5> i have one uncle(f)

2. Ether injected into gallablader to dissolve
galstones. this type oneday treatment is enough for
gallstones not for calcium stones. this method is
alternative to surgery for millions of people who are
suffering from this disease.
1> calcium stones can be cured in oneday (f)
2> hundreds of people contains calcium stones(can't
say)
3> surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones(t)
4> Eather will be injected into the gallbleder to cure
the cholestrol based gall stones(t).

3. Hacking is illigal entry into other computer. this
is done mostly because of lack of knowledge of
computer networking with networks one machine can
access to another machine. hacking go about without
knowing that each network is accredited to use network
facility.
1> Hacking people never break the code of the company
which they work for (can't say).
2> Hacking is the only vulnerability of the computers
for the usage of the data.(f)
3> Hacking is done mostly due to the lack of computer
knowledge (f).
(there will be some more questions in this one )

4. alphine tunnels are closed tunnels. in the past 30
yrs not even a single accident has been recorded for
there is one accident in the rail road system. even in
case of a fire accident it is possible to shift the
passengers into adjacent wagons and even the living
fire can be detected and extinguished with in the
duration of 30 min.
1> no accident can occur in the closed tunnels (True)
2> fire is allowed to live for 30 min. (False)
3> All the care that travel in the tunnels will be
carried by rail shutters.(t)
4>

5. In the past helicopters are forced to ground or
crash because of the formation of the ice on the
rotors and engines. a new electronic device has been
developed which can detect the watercontent in the
atmosphere and warns the pilot if the temp.is below
freezing temp. about the formation of the ice on the
rotors and wings.
1> the electronic device can avoid formation of the
ice on the wings (False).
2> There will be the malfunction of rotor & engine
because of formation of ice (t)
3> The helicopters are to be crashed or down (t)
4> There is only one device that warn about the
formation of ice(t).
6.In the survey conducted in mumbai out of 63 newly
married house wives not a single house wife felt that
the husbands should take equal part in the household
work as they felt they loose their power over their
husbands. inspite of their careers they opt to do the
kitchen work themselves after coming back to home. The
wives get half as much leisure time as the husbands
get at the week ends.
1> housewives want the husbands to take part equally
in the household(f)
2> wives have half as much leisure time as the
husbands have(f)
3> 39% of the men will work equally in the house in
cleaning and washing
3>

7. copernicus is the intelligent. In the days of
copernicus the transport and technology development
was less & it took place weeks to comunicate a message
at that time.wherein we can send it through satellite
with in no time ----------. even with this fast
developments it has become difficult to understand
each other.
1> people were not intelligent during Copernicus days
(f).
2> Transport facilities are very much improved in noe
a days (can' say)
3> Even with the fast developments of the techonology
we can't live happily.(can't say)
4> We can understand the people very much with the
development of communication(f).

Q8) senior managers warned the workers that because of
the intfoductors of japanese industry in the car
market. There is the threat to the workers. They also
said that there will be the reduction in the purchase
of the sales of car in public.the interest rates of
the car will be increased with the loss in demand.
1> japanese workers are taking over the jobs of indian
industry.(false)
2> managers said car interests will go down after
seeing the raise in interest rates.(true)
3> japanese investments are ceasing to end in the car
industry.(false)
4> people are very much interested to buy the
cars.(false)

Q9) In the totalitariturican days,the words have very
much devalued.In the present day,they are becoming
domestic that is the words will be much more devalued.
In that days, the words will be very much effected in
political area.but at present,the words came very
cheap .we can say they come free at cost.
1> totalitarian society words are devalued.(false)
2> totalitarian will have to come much about words(t)
3> The art totalitatian society the words are used for
the political speeches.
4>

Q10) There should be copyright for all arts. The reele
has came that all the arts has come under one copy
right society,they were use the money that come from
the arts for the developments . There may be a lot of
money will come from the Tagore works. We have to ask
the benifiters from Tagore work to help for the
development of his works.
1> Tagore works are came under this copy right
rule.(f)
2> People are free to go to the because of the copy
right rule.(can't say)
3> People gives to theater and collect the money for
development.(can't say)
4> We have ask the Tagore resedents to help for the
developments of art.(can't say)


1. To merry = Enjoy 
2.To Alienate = abandon
3.To Solicit = Humble
4.To Heep =to gather
5.Cargo = load,luggage
6.Momentary = for small time 
7.Volume = quantity
8.To Veer = 
9.To Admonish= 
10. To Meager = small,little
11. To lattitude, 
12. Latent = 
13. To Covet = To desire
14. To Discretion = 
15. Potential = ability
16. To Emancipate, 
17. To Wethargy,
18. To Concur = similiar
19. To Confiscate = To take charge, to annex
20. To Dispel = 
21. Baffle = puzzle
22. Subsidise = 
23. Misery = 
24. Pretentrous =
25. Tranquil = calm, silent
26.Ellace
28.Rinaile,
29.Obstinate
30.Hover 
31.Caprice,
33.Belate =after time
34.Brim = edge
35.Divulge,
36.Lamont, 
37.Bileaf, 
38. Embrace =
39.Adhesive =
40. Miserable =


Psychometry
-------------

1. When you were a child ,many of your playmates
naturally expected you to be the leader.
2. You sometimes avoid social contacts for fear of
doing or saying the wrong thing.
3. You always seem to have plenty of vigour and
vitality.
4. It is difficult for you to understand people who
get very concerned about things.
5. When a clerk in a store wants on others who come
after you ,you call his or her attention to the fact.
6. You would be very unhappy if you were prevented
from making numerous social contacts.
7. There are times when your future looks very dark.
8. You sometimes wish that people would slow down a
bit and give you a chance to catch up.
9. Many of your friends think that you take your to
seriously.
10. You hesitate to walk into a meeting when you know
that everyone^Òs eyes will be upon you .
11. You limit your friendship mostly to members of
your own sex.
12. You almost always feel well and strong.
13. You seem to lack the drive necessary to get as
much done as other people do.
14.You make decision s on the spur of the moment.
15. You are rather good at bluffing when find yourself
in difficulty.
16. After being introduced to someone ,you just cannot
think of things to say to make good conversation.
17. You feel lonesome even when with other people.
18.You are able to work unusually long hours without
feeling tired.
19. You often act on first thought that comes into
your head.
20. At the scene of an accident ,you take an active
part in helping out.
21.You have difficulty in making new friends.
22.Your mood often changes from happiness to sadness
or viceversa, without knowing why.
23. You talk more slowly than most people .
24. You like to play practical jokes upon others.
25.You take a lead to put life into a dull party.
26. You would like to belong to as many clubs and
social organizations as possible.
27. There are times when your mind seems to work very
slowly and other times when it very rapidly.
28.You like to do things slowly and deliberately.
29. You are happy-go-lucky indivisual.
30.When you are served stale or inferior food in a
restaurant, you say nothing about it.
31. You would rather apply for a job by writing a
letter than by going through with a personal
interview.
32. You are often in low spirits.
33. You are inclined to rush from one activity to
another without pausing enough for rest.
34. You are so concerned about your future that you do
not get as much fun out of the present as you might.
35. When you are attracted to a person whom you have
not met, you make an active attempt to get acquainted
even though it may be quite difficult.
36. You are inclined to limit your acquaintances to a
select few.
37. You seldom give your past mistakes a second
thought.
38. You are less energetic than many people you know.
You often stop to analyze your thoughts and feelings.
You speak out in meetings to oppose those who you feel
sure are wrong.
You are so shy ,it bothers you.
You are sometimes bothered by having a useless thought
come into your mind over and over.
You can get things done in a hurry.
It is difficulty for you to understand how some people
can be so unconcerned about future.
You like to tell things(that is to act as a
salesperson).
You are often the life of the party.
You find daydreaming very enjoyable.
At work or at day other people find it hard to keep up
with the pace you set.
You can listen to a lecture without feeling restless.
You would rather work for a good boss than for
yourself.
You start to work on a new project with a great deal
and enthusiasm.
You would rather learn an activity than take part in
it.
You have more than once taken the lead in organizing a
project or a group of some kind.
You like to entertain guest.
Your interest change quickly from one thing to
another.
When you eat a meal with others, you are usually one
of the last to finish.
You believe in the idea that we should eat, drink, and
be merry, for tomorrow we die.
When you find that something you have bought is
defective, you hesitate to demand an exchange or a
refund.
You find it easy to make new acquaintances.
You are happiest when you get involved in some project
that need rapid action.
Other people think of you as being very serious
minded.
In being thrown by chance with a stranger you wait for
the person to introduce him or herself.
You like to take part in many social activities.
You sometimes feel ^Ójust miserable^Ô for no good reason
at all.
You are often so much ^Óon the go^Ô that sooner or later
you may wear yourself out.
You like parties you attend to be lively.
If you hold an opinion that is radically different
from that expressed by a lecturer, you are likely to
tell the person about it either during or after the
lecture.
It is difficult for you to chat about things in
general with people.
You give little thought to your failures after they
are past.
You often wonder where others get all the excess
energy they seem to have.
You are inclined to stop to think things over before
you act.
You avoid arguing over a price with a clerk or
salesman.
You would dislike very much to work alone in some
isolated place.
You take life very seriously.
You like to have plenty of time to stop and rest.
You have usually been optimistic about your future.
It bothers you to have people watch you at your work.
When people do not play fair you hesitate to say
anything about it to them.
You are a carefree indivisual.
You work more slowly and deliberately than most people
of your sex and age.
It takes a lot to get emotionaly stirred up or
excited.
You enjoy acquainted with people.
You are satisfied to let someone else take the lead in
group activities.
You like work that requires considerable attention to
details.
You find yourself hurrying to get to places even when
there is plenty of time.
You often find it difficult to get to sleep at night
because you keep thinking of what happened during the
day.
You enjoy applying for job in person.
You would like to be a host or hostess for parties at
a club.
You often feel grouchy.
You are the kind of person who is ^Óon the go^Ô all the
time.
You often crave excitement.
The thought of making a speech frightens you.
You find it easy to start conversation with strangers.
You often feel guilty without a very good reason for
it.
People think you are a very energetic person.
You some times make quick decisions, that you later
wish you hadn^Òt made.
You find it difficult to ask people for money or other
donations even for a cause in which you are
interested.
You are so naturally friendly that people immediately
feel at ease with you .
You daydream a great deal.
You are quick of your action.
You have a habit of starting things and then losing
interest in them.
You can express yourself more easily in speech than in
writing.
You keep in fairly uniform spirits.
You dislike to be huried in your work.
You sometimes find yourself ^Ócrossing bridges^Ô before
you come to them.
You find it somewhat difficult to say ^Óno^Ô to a
salesperson who tries to sell you something you do not
really want.
There are only a few friends with whom you can relax
and have a good time.
You usually keep cheerfull inspite of trouble.
People sometimes tell you to ^Óslow down^Ô or ^Ótake it
easy^Ô.
You are one of those who drink or smoke more than they
know they should.
When you think you recognise people you see in a
public place, you ask them whether you have met them
before.
You prefer to work alone.
Disappointments affect you so little that you seldom
think about them twice.
You are slow and deliberate in movement.
You like wild enthusiasm, sometimes to a point
bordering on rowdyism, at a football or baseball game.
You feel selfconcious in the presence of important
people.
People think of you as being a very social person.
You have often lost sleep over your worries.
You can turn out a large amount of work in a short
time.
You keep at a task until it is done, even after nearly
everyone else has given up.
You can think of a good excuse when you need one.
Other people say that it is difficult to get to know
you well.
Your daydreams are often about things that can never
come true.
You often run upstairs taking two steps at a time.
You seldom let your resposibility interfere with your
having a good time.
You like to take on important resposibilities such as
organising a new business.
People seem to enjoy being with you .
You seek to avoid all trouble with other people.
When you get angry, if you let yourself go you feel
better.
Other people reguard you as a lively indivisual.
You generally keep cool and think clearly in exciting
situations.
You like to be with people.
You like to speak in public.
You usually say what you feel like saying at the
moment.
It irritates you to have to wait at a crossing for a
long freight train to pass.
You almost always feel that life is very much worth
living.
You are listener rather than a talker in social
conversation.
You find it difficult to get rid of a salesperson to
whom you do not care to listen or give your time.
You generally feel as though you haven^Òt a care in the
world.
Others are often amazed by the amount of work you turn
out.
Your mood is very easily influenced by people around
you.
You sometimes feel restless and tired to no good
reason.
It is hard to understand why many people are so slow
and get so little done.
You are fond of going horse races and games, whether
you can afford it or not.
If someone you know has been spreading untrue and bad
stories about you, you see the person as soon as
possible and have a talk about it.
Shyness keeps you from being as popular as you should
be.
You are generally free from worry about possible
misfortune.


