here are a few things that were recollected by a guy
from RVCE..........
 punith 6
 
1.  Problem on ages of father, son and grandson.
 
2.  There are 20 flag posts equally spaced.  A runner
takes 14 secs to reach the 14th flag post.  Find the
time taken from the start to cross all the flag posts.
(The magnitudes are not exact)
 
3.  There are 6 playing cards among which 2 are kings
for sure, but their positions are not known.  What is
the probability that,
<i> at least 1 king is obtained from 2 cards
<ii> 2 kings are obtained from 2 cards
 
4.  This problem is an analytical one.  There are 4
people A, B, C, D.  There are 4 subjects W, X, Y, Z. 
A is sure that B has won the prize in X.  B is sure
that C has won the prize in X & Y.  C is sure that D
has not won a prize in W and D is sure that A has won
a prize in Z. (The relationships are not exact).
When the prizes were given out, it was found that, of
the 4 students, 2 were correct in their assumptions. 
Who won which prize?
 
5.  Another similar problem involving an athletic meet
and who won which medal.
 
6.  A division was performed and the steps are shown. 
All the numbers involved are replaced by'_'s.  Find
the solution if it contains three 5s. (Data need not
be exact)
 
7.  Again an analytical problem.  There are 3 clans in
an island - The Arcs who never lie, the Dons who
always lie and the Slons who lie alternately with the
truth.  Once a tourist meets 2 guides who stress that
the other is a Slon.  They proceed on a tour and see a
sports meet.  The first guide says that the prizes
have been won in the order Don, Arc, Slon.  The other
says that, the order is Slon, Don, Arc. (the order
need not be exact).  To which clan did each of the
guides and the players belong?
 
8.  A problem involving, time.  A watch gains 1/2 a
minute in the morning, and 1/6th in the night.  After
some days the watch, has the right time.  When is it
going to be, if the change in time started from 29th
April.  (Data need not be exact).
 
9.  Problem on relationships.  There are 4 guys each
doing a unique profession.  Couple of guys know each
other while the others don't.  Who does what
profession?  (Not the exact problem)
 
10.  Again involving realtionships.  There are 4
tribes A, B, C, D.  There are restrictions regarding
the woman of one tribe marrying the man of another. 
The daughter gets the race of the mother while the son
gets the race of the father.  Based on this there were
4 sub questions like which combo is possible or can
this marriage lead to a descendent of this tribe and
so on.

Ajay