From: "kunal lal" 
Date: Tue Nov 30, 2004 11:45am 
Subject: Here's my contribution! 

  
hey ppl,
        good to see so much initiative! here r my gk questions          
          
1)GE's technology centre in b'lore is named after whom? - Jack 
Welch
2)Ranbaxy calls it 'Caverta', what is it popularly known as? - 
Viagra
3)Which Indian test cricketer is the representative of Musco 
lighting in India? - Kapil Dev
4)Which country's PM receives the highest salary in terms of 
dollars? -Japan
5)Zzapi Nercor is the mascot of which Indian pizza company? - 
Pizza Corner
6)Top Gear is the retail outlet of which indian company? - IOC
7)Which search engine was first named Architext and created by 
a group of Stanford University grads? - Excite
8)Who is the lowest paid CEO in the world?  - Steve Jobs, Apple 
computers, $1 annually
9)What is the name of Tainwala Chemicals' mosquito repellant 
brand? - Casper
10)Which company is the official ice-cream supplier to 
Wimbledon? - Wall's
11)Which was the first insurance company in India to start a 24 
hour call centre? - Tata AIG
12)Rasik Dhariwal is the owner of which Gutkha company? - 
Manikchand
13)Which Indian retail chain was started by former Carona 
employee B.S Nagesh? - Shopper's Stop
14)Which company was first founded and registered in 
Delaware, US as Quantum Computer Services? - AOL
15)Which is the oldest public sector bank in India? - Allahabad 
Bank

Kunal


===========MESSAGE 12===================

"Sivaji Raju S" 
To:    urpercentile@yahoo.co.in
Subject:    GK QUESTION BANK



Here goes my humble contribution: 

1. Former woman chief minister who was a novelist : 
      Nandhini Sathpathy ( Orissa )

2. First Indian to receive the Magsaysay award :
       Vinobha Bhave

3. Vasco Da Gama came to India in 1524.  In what capacity did 
the Portuguese send him?
       Portuguese Viceroy of India.

4.  Last film directed by Stanley Kubrick:
       Eyes wide shut.

5.  The National Labour Institute is named after a former Indian 
President:
       V.V.Giri

6.  This ruler of Yugoslavia was popularly known as Tito. Name 
him.
        (Marshal) Josip Broz ruling period (end of WWII - 1980)

7.  Nobel prizes were first awarded in the Year 1901.

8.  Father of modern journalism - Daniel Defoe

9.  Father of economics - Adam Smith.

10. The popular cartoon character was created by Herge, which 
was the nom de plume(pseudonym) of :
       Coorges Remi.

11.  Teddy Bears got their name from a former American 
President. Name  him
         Theodore Roosevelt.

12.  The first woman to fly solo over the Atlantic and the craft that
she flew in:
          Amelia Earhart, Lockheed Vega 5B
       (On May 21, 1932,starting from Harbour Grace, 
Newfoundland, her flight lasted almost  fifteen hours, when she  
touched down in a pasture near Londonderry, Northern Ireland.)

13.  The first man to fly solo nonstop(this is the keyword, many 
had done it before; but not nonstop)  over the Atlantic :
          Charles Lindbergh 
        ( Was an active campaigner against the voluntary 
involvement of USA in WWII )
       (Lindbergh, Charles Augustus (1902-1974), an American 
aviator, made the first solo nonstop flight across the Atlantic 
Ocean on May 20-21, 1927.  Nicknames : Lucky Lindy & Lone 
Eagle)

14.  Who said this on what:
           "A riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma"
            Sir Winston Churchill on Russia.

15.  The first Indian woman to be nominated for a Grammy:
         Anoushka Shankar

16.  The UN resolution number that called on Iraq to disarm or 
face the consequences:
         1441

17.  First Woman to be elected the British House of Commons-
         Nancy Astor

18.  This NRI owns a steel company which is bigger than British 
Steel
:  Name him and the company.
          Lakshmi Niwas Mittal ( LNM group)

19.  The book "Quotations from chairman Mao Zedong" is 
popularly known  as:
          The Little Red Book.

20.  The name that strikes terror in the hearts of many: Al Qaeda 
means:
          The base

21.  Who said this abt who:
            "A half naked seditious fakir"
           Sir Winston Churchill on Bapu( Mahatma Gandhi)

22.  The outlay of India's first 5 yr plan:
           2978 crores.

23.  Saddam Hussein autobiography :
          Men and  a City.

24.  Initially Lok Sabha was known as: ( initial period of 2 years
from its inception)
          The House of the People.

25.  Madras was renamed Chennai in the year :
          1996

26.  The popular cartoon character Garfield was created by :
          Jim Davies

27.   IBM was initially known as :
          Hollerith Machine Company

28.  Who said this?   "The world has enough for everybody's 
need but enough for everybody's greed."
            Mahatma Gandhi

29.  Gandhiji's face is probably the most common thing that one 
would see on an Indian Stamp.  First time he appeared on an 
Indian Stamp:
             Aug 15, 1948.

30.  The BSA in BSA cycles stands for:
           Birmingham Small Arms.

31.  Wright Bros.  owned a .......................... before they made
the first powered flight.
            Bicycle firm.

Would try compiling more and send them as soon as i can.

Good luck.....


Sivaji
