
List of top Management Institutes in India offering a general MBA 
program

A + Grade

1.   Indian Institute of Management, 
Ahmedabad                                                
2.   Indian Institute of Management, 
Bangalore                                    
3.   Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata                               = 
         
4.   Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow                               = 
      
5.   Xavier Labour Relations Institute (XLRI), Jamshedpur 
6.   Faculty of Management Studies (FMS), Delhi                            = 
    
7.   Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, 
Mumbai          
8.   S.P.Jain Institute of Management, 
Mumbai                                     
9.   Management Development Institute, 
Gurgaon                               
10. Indian School of Business, 
Hyderabad                                            

A Grade

1.   Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode 
2.   Indian Institute of Management, Indore                                = 
          
3.   Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM), Trichy                
4.   T.A.Pai Management Institute, Manipal                                 = 
         
5.   Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, 
Pune                    
6.   Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar                           = 
  
7.   Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS), 
Mumbai 
8.   Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Ghaziabad               
9.  SCMHRD                                                                 = 
                             
10.  KJ Somaiya 


B+ Grade

1.   Sydenham College, Mumbai 
2.   SIES College of Management Studies, Mumbai 
3.   Amity Business School, Noida 
4.   Wellingkars Institute of Management, Mumbai 
5.   MET Business School, Mumbai 
6.   Goa Institute of Management, Goa 
7.   Loyola Institute of Business Administration, Chennai 
8.   Xaviers Institute of Management Enterprise, Bangalore 
9.   UBS, Punjab University 
10. School of Communication and Management, Cochin. 

Specialised institutes

There are some reputed specialised institutions, which offer 
management courses.  Before applying to them it is best to 
know their objectives, which may differ from yours.  Some 
prominent institutes are:

XLRI -     In addition to a well-run MBA course, XLRI offers a 
specialisation course in Industrial Relations.  This is highly rated 
among the courses in Personnel Management in India. The 
name XLRI - Xavier's Labour Relations Institute misleads people 
into thinking that the institute trains only in labour relations.  
Please realise that they also conduct a well-recognised general 
MBA program.

TISS   -   The Tata Institute of Social Sciences conducts an MA in 
Personnel Management, which is rated highly in the industry as 
a world-class qualification in that area.

IRMA -   Focuses solely on Rural Development using the co-
operative model.  It restricts placement to voluntary agencies and 
co-operatives. Besides IRMA, the other colleges that offer a 
program on rural management and marketing is IIM-
Ahmedabad.  

IIFT  -     Focuses solely on foreign trade.  Placement is thus 
largely in export departments/houses.  It is widely rated as the 
best in India. The other colleges popular for International 
business are IMI, Delhi and SIFT in Pune.

NIFT  - Focuses solely on the garment industry.  Placement is 
restricted to this area.

IIFM  -    Focuses on the management of forest resources.  Set 
up with help from IIM-A, it is getting good placement offers.

NITIE The Mumbai based institute focuses on Industrial 
Management and is well recognized in its field. The other 
colleges in this offering a similar program are the IITs, the best 
of which are the programs of IIT Bombay, Delhi and Kharagpur.

Warm Regards!        
Debarya Sarkar
Enterprise Solutions - SAP
Perseverance admist failures leads to success..."

