Tata Consultancy Services Sample Test#1


NOTE:EACH OF THE QUESTIONS GIVEN BELOW APPEAR AS MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS IN THE ACTUAL
PAPER.

VERBAL SECTION

Directions for questions 1-15:Find the synonyms of the following words

1. Merry

Ans. Gay,Happy


2. Alienate

Ans. Estrange 


3. Solicit

Ans. To request 


4.Heap

Ans. To pile 


5.Cargo

Ans. Freight 


6.Momentary

Ans. Transient 


7. Volume

Ans.Quantity 


8.Veer

Ans.Diverge 


9.Dispel

Ans.Dissipate 


10.Admonish

Ans.Cautious 


11.Meager

Ans.Scanty 


12.Latitude

Ans.Scope 


13.Latent

Ans.Potential 


14.Covet

Ans.Crave 


15.Discretion

Ans. Prudence 

 

QUANTITATIVE SECTION

1. If two pencils cost 8 cents, then how much do 5 pencils cost?

Ans. 20 cents


2. Some work is done by two people in 24 minutes. One of them can do this work alone in 40 minutes. How much time does the
second person take to do the same work ?

Ans. 60 minutes 


3. A car is filled with four and half gallons of fuel for a round trip.If the amount of fuel taken while going is 1/4 more than the
amount taken for coming, what is the amount of fuel consumed while coming back?

Ans.2 gallons


4. The lowest temperature in the night in a city A is 1/3 more than 1/2 the highest during the day. Sum of the lowest temperature
and the highest temperature is 100 degrees. Then what is the low temp? 

Ans.40 degrees 


5. Javagal, who decided to go to weekened trip should not exceed 8 hours driving in a day. The average speed of forward journey is
40 miles/hr.Due to traffic on sundays, the return journey's average speed is 30 m/h. How far he can select a picnic spot?

a) 120 miles
b) between 120 and 140 miles 
c) 160 miles 

Ans. 120 miles 


6. A salesperson by mistake multiplied a number and got the answer as 3, instead of dividing the number by 3.What is the answer
he should have actually got? 

Ans. 3


7. A building with height D shadow upto G. What is the height of a neighbouring building with a shadow of C feet.

Ans. (C*D)/G


8. A person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by 10 mph. Another person was also fined for exceeding the same speed limit
by twice the same. If the second person was travelling at a speed of 35 mph, find the speed limit.

Ans. 15 mph 


9. A bus started from bustand at 8.00am, and after staying for 30 minutes at a destination, it returned back to the busstand. The
destination is 27 miles from the busstand. The speed of the bus is 18mph. During the return journey bus travels with 50% faster
speed.At what time does it return to the busstand? 

Ans. 11.00am 


10. In a mixture, R is 2 parts and S is 1 part. In order to make S to 25% of the mixture, how much of R is to be added? 

Ans.One part of R 


11. Wind flows 160 miles in 330 min, for travelling 80 miles how much time does it require? 

Ans. 2 hrs 45 mins


12. With a 4/5 full tank a vehicle can travel 12 miles, how far can it travel with a 1/3 full tank 

Ans. 5 miles 


13. There are two trees in a lawn. One grows at a rate 3/5 of the other in 4 years. If the total growth of trees is 8 ft. What is the
height of the smaller tree after 2 years 

Ans. 1 1/2 feet


14. Refer to the figure below.A ship started from P and moves at a speed of I miles per hour and another ship starts from L and
moving with H miles per hour simultaneously.Where do the two ships meet? 

||---g---||---h---||---i---||---j---||---k---||---l---||

PG H I J K L are the various stops in between denoted by || . The values g, h, i, j, k, l denote the distance between the ports.

Ans. Between I and J, closer to J


15. If A is travelling at 72 km per hour on a highway. B is travelling at a speed of 25 meters per second on a highway. What is the
difference in their speeds in m/sec.

Ans. 1 m/sec

 

CRITICAL REASONING SECTION

The critical reasoning section consists of some passages followed by 4 to 7 questions per passage. The questions are such that
they require ability to read fast and comprehend. The questions asked in this section have three choices TRUE, FALSE, CAN'T
SAY. Some examples of questions are given below. Please note that these passages are not the exact passages asked. The
passages used a good deal of difficult words which have been removed in this reproduction. Also the passages appearing in the
actual paper are much lengthier.

Directions: Answer the questions given below the passage or statement as true, false or can't say.

PASSAGE A: My father has no brothers. He has three sisters who has two childs each.

Answer 1-5 based on the passage A

1.My grandfather has two sons .

Ans. False   


2. Three of my aunts have two sons

Ans. Can't say


3. My father is only child to his father

Ans. False


4. I have six cousins from my mother side

Ans. Can't say


5. I have one uncle

Ans. Can't say(uncle can be from the mother's side as well)

 

PASSAGE B: Ether injected into gallablader to dissolve colestrol based gallstones. This type one day treatment is enough for
gallstones not for calcium stones. This method is alternative to surgery for millions of people who are suffering from this disease. 

Answer questions 6-9 based on passage B

6.Calcium stones can be cured in oneday 

Ans. False


 7. Hundreds of people contains calcium stones

Ans. Can't say


8. Surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones

Ans. True


9. Ether will be injected into the gallbleder to cure the cholestrol based gall stones

Ans. True

 

PASSAGE C: Hacking is illegal entry into another computer. This happens mostly because of lack of knowledge of computer
networking. With networks one machine can access to another machine.Hacking go about without knowing that each network is
accredited to use network facility. 

Answer questions 10-12 based on passage B

10. Hackers never break the code of the company which they work for

Ans. Can't say


11. Hacking is the only vulnerability of the computers for the usage  of the data

Ans. False


12.Hacking is done mostly due to the lack of computer knowledge 

Ans. False  

 

PASSAGE C: Alphine tunnels are closed tunnels.In the past 30 yrs not even a single accident has been recorded for there is one
accident in the rail road system. Even in case of a fire accident it is possible to shift the passengers into adjacent wagons and even
the live fire can be detected and extinguished with in the duration of 30 min. 

Answer questions 13-16 based on passage C

13. No accident can occur in the closed tunnels

Ans. True


14. Fire is allowed to live for 30 min

Ans. False


16. All the care that travel in the tunnels will be carried by rail shutters.

Ans.True 

 

PASSAGE D: In the past helicopters were forced to ground or crash because of the formation of the ice on the rotors and
engines. A new electronic device has been developed which can detect the watercontent in the atmosphere and warns the pilot if
the temperature is below freezing temperature about the formation of the ice on the rotors and wings. 

Answer questions 17-20 based on passage D

17.The electronic device can avoid formation of the ice on the wings 

Ans.False


18. There will be the malfunction of rotor & engine because of formation of ice

Ans.True


19. The helicopters were to be crashed or grounded

Ans.True


20. There is only one device that warn about the formation of ice

Ans.True 

 

PASSAGE E:In the survey conducted in mumbai out of 63 newly married house wives not a single house wife felt that the
husbands should take equal part in the household work as they felt they loose their power over their husbands. Inspite of their
careers they opt to do the kitchen work themselves after coming back to home. the wives get half as much leisure time as the
husbands get at the week ends. 

Answer questions 21-23 based on passage E

21.Housewives want the husbands to take part equally in the household

Ans.False


22. Wives have half as much leisure time as the husbands have

Ans. False


23. 39% of the men will work equally in the house in cleaning and washing 

Ans. False 

 

PASSAGE F:Copernicus is the intelligent. In the days of copernicus the transport and technology development was less & it took
place weeks to comunicate a message at that time,wherein we can send it through satellite with in no time.Even with this fast
developments it has become difficult to understand each other.

Answer questions 24-27 based on passage F

24. People were not intelligent during Copernicus days 

Ans.False


25. Transport facilities are very much improved in noe a days 

Ans.Can't say


26. Even with the fast developments of the techonology we can't live happily.

Ans. Can't say


27. We can understand the people very much with the development of communication

Ans. False. 

 

 PASSAGE G:Senior managers warned the workers that because of the intfoductors of japanese industry in the car market. There
is the threat to the workers.They also said that there will be the reduction in the purchase of the sales of car in public.the interest
rates of the car will be increased with the loss in demand. 

Answer questions 28-31 based on passage G

28. Japanese workers are taking over the jobs of indian industry.

Ans.False


29.Managers said car interests will go down after seeing the raise in interest rates.

Ans.True


30. Japanese investments are ceasing to end in the car industry.

Ans. False


31. People are very interested to buy the cars.

Ans.False 

 

PASSAGE H:In the totalitariturican days,the words have very much devalued.In the present day,they are becoming domestic that
is the words will be much more devalued. In that days, the words will be very much effected in political area.but at present,the
words came very cheap .We can say they come free at cost. 

Answer questions 32-34 based on passage H

32.Totalitarian society words are devalued.

Ans.False


33. Totalitarians will have to come much about words

Ans.True


34. The art totalitatian society the words are used for the political speeches.

Ans. False

 

PASSAGE I:There should be copyright for all arts. The reele has came that all the arts has come under one copy right
society,they were use the money that come from the arts for the developments . There may be a lot of money will come from the
Tagore works. We have to ask the benifiters from Tagore work to help for the development of his works. 

Answer questions 35-39 based on passage I

35. Tagore works are came under this copy right rule.

Ans. False


36. People are free to go to the public because of the copy right rule.

Ans.Can't say


38. People gives to theater and collect the money for development.

Ans.Can't say


39. We have  ask the Tagore resedents to help for the developments of art.

Ans.Can't say

 

PYSCHOMETERIC TEST

You don't need to fret much about this test. This test consists of 150 questions and is just a pyshcology test which should be
answered confidently and doesn't require any preparation.One must try being consistent while answering as the same questions
are repeatedly asked in different forms.Also one must answer all questions.Questions are of yes,no or can't say kind.

1. Will you be interested in social activities. 

2. While going upstairs do you move two steps at a time. 

3. Can you make friends with people of the same sex or with opposite sex also

4. Your friends consider you as a leader in your group 

5. People think that your'e serious minded. 

6. There are times you feel dull without any reason.

7. You host several parties

8. When relatives come to your house do you entertain them. 

9. You can work for long hours without tireness. 

10. In your company you want to lead the organisation.
