

                      Interview Practice
                -------------------------------------
                                                                                     
Practicing for the interview means practicing several behaviors
- not    just answering questions. You must dress well, watch
your body    language and posture, practice your manners and eye
contact as well as    practice answering questions correctly,
smoothly, and with confidence.  The practice questions below, in
one form or another, account for a    large percentage of
interview questions. With each question, you are    given a
series of choices as to how you might answer the question.
When you select an answer, you will learn whether your answer is
correct-and why. Answering these questions will help you polish
your   interviewing techniques. The questions and answers in
this excercise   are generic and, in many cases, must be
tailored to your individual   situation. Still, the logic behind
the answer remains essentially the   same.
   
Why are you the best person for the job?  I 've held a lot of
positions like this one, and that experience    will help me
here." "Because I am good at what I do."

"Our discussion here leads me to believe this is a good place to
work."

"You need someone who can produce results, and my background and
experience are proof of my ability. For example..."

If asked a point blank question such as: Are you creative? Are
you  analytical?    Can you work under pressure? etc. What is
the best way to    answer?

Answer yes or no.

Answer yes and give a specific example.

Answer yes and give an explanation.

 3 Tell me about yourself.
   
   1.Outline personal data, hobbies, and interests.
   
   2.Give an overview of your personality and work habits.
   
   3.Give three specific examples of your personality traits and
accomplishments.
   
4. What was your CGPA? Why is it low?    
   
1.My CGPA is -----. basically because I had a lot of fun in college.
   
2.My GPA is ----- because I held a full time job while in
college,    working my way through school. It is not relfective
of my ability to do the job.
   
3.My GPA is ------ which I don't think is too low, at least
compared to    my friends.
   
5. What are you looking for in a position?
   
   1."I'm looking for an opportunity to apply my skills and
contribute to    the growth of the company while helping create
some advancement opportunities for myself."
   
   2."I'm looking for an organization that will appreciate my
contributions and reward my efforts."
   
   3."I'm looking for a position that will allow me to make
enough money    to support my lifestyle. I am a hard worker and
will give a concerted    effort to earn the money I need."
   
6. What do you know about our organization?
   
1."I've done a little homework and here is what I know about
your     organization...(cite examples)"
   
2."Everything I've seen and heard makes me want to be a part of
this organization. I understand your industry is ________ and
your primary customer is __________. A particularly exciting
part of your business    appears to be _________ ."
   
3."I know enough to know this is an exciting place to work. It
appears    to be fit for my career goals."
   
7. What is a weakness?
   
1. I get really frustrated with my co-workers when they whine
about    everything.
   
2. I don't "toot my own horn". I like to go in and get the job
done and I don't dwell on who gets credit.
   
3. I don't think I have a weakness.
   
8. How would you characterize your work style?
   
1. I am a very driven person. I make a list of what needs to be
done and then tackle  the items until I've completed the job.
   
2. I show up whenever I'm scheduled to work.
   
3.I haven't held a job yet so I don't know what my work style will be.
   
9. What are your strengths?
   
1."I am good at giving constructive criticism to my coworkers.
This    honesty is something I'm very proud of and have found
essential to    having open working relationships."
   
2."I consider myself to be very consistent. I have proven myself
to be    someone who can be counted upon to do what is
expected."
   
3."I would have to chose between two skills. I am very proud of
my    determination and ability to get things done. At the same
time, I am    very proud of my analytical abilities and problem
solving skills.  These skills combine to give me a unique
ability to solve problems and then implement the solutions."
   
 10. How would co-workers describe you?
   
1."They perceive me as a leader. The people who have worked with
me learned great deal and accomplished in many cases more than
they    thought possible."
   
2."My employees would tell you they got direction when they
needed and  the room to work when it was appropriate. I believe
a measure of a good manager is how much he is able to get done
through others."
   
3."They perceive me as someone who cared about them personally
and had high expectations. I get a great deal of satisfaction
from helping    others do their best. My former employees would
highlight three of my    priorities which are to build loyalty
and a team environment, obtain    results and develop people."
   
11. What did you like and dislike about college?
   
1. I didn't like the tremendous ammount of homework some
professors    assigned us. I liked those professors who
realized, I had a life outside of class.
   
2.I liked the opportunity to be involved on campus. It was a
small    campus that allowed students to take responsibility,
organize events    and be a part of the planning team. I can't
really think of anything I    disliked, college was a wonderful
experience.
   
3.I liked having Wednesdays off. I think the thing I disliked
most was    living in the dorms.
   
12. Are you willing to relocate?
   
1.No.
   
2.I'm open to opportunities within the company so if that
involves    relocation I would consider it.
   
3.I'd move, but I know your headquarters is in Alaska and that's
too    cold for me.
   
13. What are your short term goals?
   
1."Short term, I just want a job."
   
2."Bills are beginning to pile up. In the short run I need to
find  work so I can keep up with my obligations."
   
3."Short-term, I'd like to find a position that is a good fit
and  where I can contribute to a company's bottom line. The
position we are here to discuss today would appear to be such an
opportunity. Could you tell me more about it?"
   
14. Where do you want to be in 5 years?
   
1.I haven't really thought that far ahead but I think I'd want your  job.
   
2."If selected I would hope to meet my goals and take advantage
of    opportunitites to learn so I will be considered for other
positions  within the company. I hope to build my career with a
company such as this one."
   
3."Long term, I hope to start my own business."
   
 15. Describe a situation you've encountered with a difficult
customer.
   
1.In my last job I dealt with customers at a retail store. One
customer wanted to return an item she had obviously bought
several years ago, which was against store policy. I talked to
her calmly and explained our policies and encouraged her to shop
and I would exchange the item however I could not give a refund.
   
2. I rarely encounter a difficult customer because of my
excellent    customer service.
   
3. I had a customer once who claimed her steak was not cooked
correctly....I picked up a knife and cut it open and explained
that's the way it's supposed to be.
   
16. Before we go any further, what kind of money do you need to
make?
   
1.I feel I am worth at least $30,000."
   
2."My salary requirements are negotiable. Your firm has a
reputation    of compensating employees fairly and I trust you
would do the same in    my case. I am very interested in finding
the right opportunity and will be open to any fair offer when I
do so."
   
3."Money is not very important to me. I need to be able to pay
the    bills but the work environment is far more important to
me."
   
Face to Face Interview Preparation

So you have a job interview, NOW WHAT?

You have sent out hundreds of resumes and finally a Human
Resource person calls to schedule a time for you to come in for
a face to face interview.  This is a great company, and you
think you are perfect for the job.  Now, you must demonstrate
that to the hiring authority you are perfect for the position.

Here are some pointers to keep in mind when going in for the
interview.

Prepare - Do not go in attempting to "wing" it.  Keep in mind
there are lots of competitors for the job, and you will only
have this opportunity to impress the hiring authority.Research
and know the company, their history, products, services and
reputation.

Prepare answers to questions that will likely come up, like
"What is your biggest weakness?" "What is your greatest
failure?" "Describe your best and worse boss?" "Tell me
something about yourself?" "Why did you leave your last job?"
"How can you contribute to this company in this job?"

There will likely be a longer list of questions, each a
potential landmine that can eliminate you from the competition.
Keep your answers short and to the point.  Do not ramble.
Always be honest and avoid negative statements.  Wear your best
suit - The first impressions of a candidate are lasting.  It is
better to be over-dressed than under-dressed.  Your appearance
will demonstrate that you are taking the initiative.  Go out of
your way to make a good impression. Even if you never wear a
suit to work, even if it is a production job, the interviewer
will be pleased by your effort to impress.

Be on time - It is better for you to be early and wait for your
appointment time than to keep the interviewer waiting and
wondering.  If you miss your appointment time you may not get
another.  If a problem or emergency arises, and they do, call
immediately and explain and offer to come in at another time,
whenever is convenient for the interviewer.

Body language - Sit up, look attentive, do not cross your arms
or legs make eye contact.  Interviewers rely on body language to
determine your level of interest.

 Present a positive attitude - Companies seek pleasant and
positive people.

 Bring extra copies of your resume - You may interview with a
team of people, do not make them share one resume.

  Avoid smoking and drinking alcohol before and during an
interview.  If going to lunch with an interviewer, decline
alcholic beverages even if the interviewer orders a cocktail
with their meal.  If you are a smoker, abstain before and during
the interview.  Smoking can offend many people, even smoking
before an interview can leave an odor which may be offensive to
the interviewer.

 Do not lead with money or benefit questions in the initial
interview - If your main motivation is money it will probably
turn off most hiring authorities.  Convince them you can do the
job and want the job before discussing money and benefits.
Money, benefits and vacation will come up and can be discussed
should the company wish to make you an offer.

 Sell yourself - If you don't no one else will.  Use facts and
figures to quantify your experience and ability. Tell them the
things that will benefit the company if they hire you.

Show interest in the job - If you act cool they may not realize
that you want the job.  Companies want someone who is interested
and enthusiastic about the job and the company.  Don't make the
hiring authority guess if you want the job.

Do not close any doors - No matter what you see or hear during
the interview don't overreact.  Obstacles may come up regarding
money, relocation or other issues that can be resolved later if
you leave the issue open.

Getting an offer - If an offer is made to you during an
interview never, reject it outright.  Ask for time to think it
over to consider money and the specific details of the offer.
Always respond positively.  If you let them know you want the
job it will be a lot easier to negotiate items like salary
later.

When the Interview is over - Ask if there are any reservations
about your ability to do the job.  Deal with these now.  Ask
what is the next step in the interview  process.  If you like
the job and want an offer now is the time to tell them.  Do not
assume they will know if you want the job or not.

Follow-up - Be sure to send a note letting them know you
appreciate the opportunity to interview and reiterating  your
interest in the position.  Keep the note brief, and to the
point.

  

1.In my last job I dealt with customers at a retail store. One
customer wanted to return an item she had obviously bought
several years ago,

2."If selected I would hope to meet my goals and take advantage
of    opportunitites to learn so I will be considered for other
positions  within the company. I hope to build my career with a
company such as this one."
   
3."Long term, I hope to start my own business."
   
 15. Describe a situation you've encountered with a difficult
customer.
   


						Interview -tips
                 -------------------------------


		1)You should do some rough work immediately 
		  adjacent to the problem(Aptitede)
		2)You should write the explanationary notes
		  adjacent to the C program.
		
 INTERVIEW AIM:
                 1)Project should be on FEM.
		 2)You have to explain project clearly
		 3)Don't tell "Iam expert in FEM or in C"
		    Other wise they will ask more typical Ques.
		 4)You tell "I know C++ & C . I am learning C++
		    simultaneously with C."
               Q1)TELL ABOUT YOUR WORK (means project work)
	       Q2)TELL ABOUT YOUR FAMILY
		Ans: Sir,I came from a family which gives higher
		     priority to education.We are two.Because of
		     my parents active guidance we are pursuing 
		     higher studies.I sister studied Msc and she
		     got married.
	                 I studied B.tech in N.U
		 	  10 in- - - - 
			INTER in - - - -
	Q3)WHY YOU ARE COMING TO SOFT WARE?
       ANS:Well sir,
		   What I have learned all these days definitely
	increased my technical skills.But a the same time also
	increased my ANALYTICAL,PROUBLE SHOOTING& PROBLEM SOLVING
	skills.
		What ever may be the technical backgrount ,above
		skills are necessary for S-W.
        Rapid grouth,frequent updating&Attractive compensation pay
	packages.
	Q4)WHAT IS YOUR AMBITION?
	ANS)Sir , I would like to become a person who is someone in 
	     SOFT WARE.
	Q5)WHERE DO YOU LIKE TO SEE AFTER 5 YEARS?
	ANS:Sir
		One year from now I would like to become a good soft ware
		expert.
		Two years from now I would like to become a person who
		handles team work(i.e project leader)
		Five years from now I have to handle morethan one project
		at a time.
         Q6)WHY THIS COLLEGE?
		Sir, from the very first begining I have had special
		carving(interest) to pursue(get) my higher studies
		from any reputed institution.I hope I have succeeded.
	Q7)YOUR +POINTS
	ANS:I am a team person (you sould mension as captain of cricket)
           I can handle problems as they came
	Q8)YOUR -POINTS
	   Sir I am a bit over confident(or emotional)and I believes
	    people in first insident.
	Q9)IF YOU CAN'T SELECTED TO THIS JOB ,WHAT CAN YOU DO?
	ANS:
	Sir I am confident that I should definitely get job in your
	   organization.I that worst case will happened I will try
           to rectify my errors and once again I will try for your
	   organization.
	       Even then if I failed , I will search for another
	   organization which is suitable for my potential.
	Q10)WHY THIS COMPANY?
	ANS:
		Sir Iam looking in the company for the following
		 things.
		1)Which is a gaint in S-W.
		2)Which is well reputed organization.
		3)Which is having noninert enveronment
