infosys paper.  6/7/2001. time :60 minutes



1.a girl bringing eggs from shop in a basket. it fell
down and all eggs broken. she did not remember. how
many eggs in basket.but when counted at shop if they
counted 2's,3's,4's and 5's  remainders are 1,2,3,4.
then find the number of eggs in basket. (ans 59).
(marks 3)
2. three persons names tommy,bacott, roy are there.one
of them is thief.police caught them asked them who
stole some thing.then each person said" those two
stole it, i didn,t take it". then later police found
that tommy is lying . then who is the thief.
(ans:  tommy) (marks 3)
3. some account, cashier, clerk problem.
given conditions.ans
accountant: nelson
cashier:miller
clerk:lewis
(marks 3)
4. how many 4's are there in  400 to 499.
(ans:120)
(marks 3)
5. some time finding problem
i didn,t rember correctly.ans 22horus(may be)
(marks 5)
6.a cyclist and train daily meet at station. one day
cyclist late by 20 minutes. then train crossing him
berore station by 5 miles. cyclist speed is 12 kmph.
then find the speed of the train.
ans 60 kmph
(marks 5)
7.three persons participated in a race. in that
soreran is the winner. he always tells truth. another
is neoran who tells always false. another medioran
tells truth and falls alerternately not necessarily in
order. the follwing statements are made by them.
(marks 6)
A:1 c is not crowd at A at last run , suchthat he
    can    loose game
   2. c is always tells truth
   3. c is winner

B:1. B won the race
  2. c is not the norean

C:1. B won the race
  2. c isnot crowd  A at last run to causn him loose
match.
find the whom made the statements a , b,c.
(marks 6)
8. eleven friend are went to cinema thearte. they
eleven seats in a row. first a can sit in any seats of
the eleven seats. then adjoining to a b is sit. then
adjoing to b c is sit. in this all friends can sit how
many ways. (ans 11*2power 9 chek answr )
(marks 6)
9. four persons are there. their names are max 8
syallable are less than eight. in their four names.
two names have no vowel sounds. and one have one vowel
sound ,another have two vowel sound.
given some conditions. basing on that we have found
that no of vowels and sysallbele in that names.
(marks 8)
10. a,b,c,d,e are students. they can speak some
languges. that condings are given . ( you can easily
undr stood that )
last condition in that  is one speaks five lanaguges,
one four, one two , one three. then given some
questiongs (marks 8)

and 1.c
    2.d
    3.c
    4.d


essay writing:(15 minutes)

  which is greater intellectual capital or financial
capital
        or

information technology -to arrest corruption

if you  have any new papers oracle ittiam texas huges
please send. if get from kmrs or any body next lettr i
will give my campus schedule. they put elegibility for


