AIRPORT

by

                  ARTHUR HAILEY
All of the characters in this book are
fictitious, and any resemblance to
actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.

This low-priced Bantam Book
has been completely reset in a type face
designed for easy reading, and was printed
from new plates. It contains the complete
text of the original hard-cover edition.
NOT ONE WORD HAS BEEN OMITTED.
                        

                       AIRPORT

A Beintam Book / published It I, arrangernent with
Doubleda), & Company, Inc.

                 PRINTING HISTORY
           Doubleday edition published March 1968
    2nd printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         ......     March 1968 6th printing                  Juh, 1968
    3rd printing . . . . . . . . . . . . .           ......     March 1968 7th printing                  ~ .  Jul),1968
    4th    . . .                             printing.......     April 1968 8th printing . . September
  1968
    5th. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   printing........      June 1968 9th printing                  October 1968
               10th printing           October 1968
      Excerpt appeared in the CHICAGO TRIBUNE March 1968
         Literarv Guild edition published April 1968
  Reader's Digest Condensed Book Club edition published April 1968
       Dollar Book Club edition published Januari, 1969
            Bantain edition published Jul " v 1969
    2nd printing                       . . .         ........      Julv 1969 6th printing                ........     Ju1j,
  1969
    3rd printing                       . . .         ........      July 1969 7th printing                ........     July
  1969
    4th. . . . . .                   . . .   printing........      July 1969 Sth printing                .....   October
  1969
    5th. . . . . .                   . . .   printing........      Juh, 1969 9th printing                .....   
  Januai-), 1970
                    loth printing
                     Ilth printing

                All rights reserved.
     Copyright (K) , 968 hv Arthur Hailev. Ltd.
This hool. tnav not he reproduced in whole or in part. br
Mimeograph or anI, other ineans without perinission.
For information address: Doubledu ' y & Couipanv, Inc.,
       277 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017.

   Published simultaneousI.I, in the United States ond Caloult,

Bantarn Booky (ire published hv Bantain Books. bic., (I National
General company. Its trade-inark, consisting of the words "Banianz
Books" and the portra.val of a bant(inz. is registered in Ihc United
States Patent Office and in other countries. Marco Registrada.
Buntion Bookv, Inc., 666 Fifth Avenue, Neu, York, N.Y. 10019,

     PRINFED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
  Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of earth
  And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings

      from High Flight
      by John Gillespie Magee, Jr. (1922-1941) sometime Flight Lieutenant,
      Royal Canadian Air Force
          PART ONE

  6:30 P.M.-8:30 P.M. (CST)
                           1

  At half-past six on a Friday evening in January, Lincoln International
  Airport, Illinois, was functioning, though with difficulty.
    The airport was reeling-as was the entire Midwestern United States-from
    the meanest, roughest winter storm in half a dozen years. The storm had
    lasted three days. Now, like pustules on a battered, weakened body,
    trouble spots were erupting steadily.
    A United Air Lines food truck, loaded with two hundred dinners, was lost
    and presumably snowbound somewhere on the airport perimeter. A search for
    the truck-in driving snow and darkness-had so far failed to locate either
    the missing vehicle or its driver.
    United's Flight I I I-a non-stop DC-8 for Los Angeles, which the food
    truck was to service-was already several hours behind schedule. The food
    snafu would make it later stiff. Similar delays, for varying reasons,
    were affecting at least a hundred flights of twenty other airlines using
    Lincoln International.
    Out on the airfield, runway three zero was out of use, blocked by an
    A6reo-Mexican jet-a Boeing 707-its wheels deeply mired in waterlogged
    ground beneath snow, near the runway's edge. Two hours of intensive
    effort had failed to get the big jet moved. Now, A6reoMexican, having
    exhausted its own local resources, had appealed to 'IVA for help.
   Air Traffic Control, hampered by the loss of runway

                            3
  4                           AIRPORT

  three zero, had instituted flow control procedures, limiting the volume
  of incoming traffic from adjoining air route centers at Minrieapolis,
  Cleveland, Kansas City, Indianapolis, and Denver. Despite this, twenty
  incoming flights were stacked up overhead, and orbiting, some nearing low
  fuel limits. On the ground, twice that number were readying for takeoff.
  But until the backlog of flights in the air could be reduced, ATC had
  ordered further delays of outbound traffic. Meanwhile, terminal gates,
  taxiways, and ground holding areas were increasingly crammed with waiting
  aircraft, many with engines running.
    Air freiQht warehouses-of all airlines-were stacked to their palletized
    limits with shipments, their usual high speed transit impeded by the
    storm. Freight supervisors were nervously watching perishables-hothouse
    flowers from Wyoming for New England; a ton of Pennsylvania cheese for
    Anchorage, Alaska; frozen peas for Iceland; live lobsters-trans-shipped
    from the east for a polar route flight-destination Europe. The lobsters
    were for tomorrow's menus in Edinburgh and Paris where they would be
    billed as "fresh local seafood," and American tourists would order them
    unknowingly. Storm or not, contracts decreed that air freight perishables
    must arrive at destination fresh, and swiftly.
    Causing special anxiety in American Airlines Freight was a shipment of
    several thousand turkey poults, hatched in incubators only hours earlier.
    The precise hatching-shipping schedule-like a complex order of battle-was
    set up weeks ago, before the turkey eggs were laid. It called for
    delivery of the live birds on the West Coast within forty-eight hours of
    birth, the limit of the tiny creatures' existence without their first
    food or water. Normally, the arrangement provided a near-hundred percent
    survival. Significant also-if the poults were fed en route, they would
    stink, and so would the airplane conveying them, for days afterward.
    Already the poults' schedule was out of joint by several hours. But an
    airplane had been diverted from passenger to freight service, and tonight
    the fledgling turkeys would have priority over everything else traveling,
    human VIPs included.
                        AIRPORT                           5

    In the main passenger terminal, chaos predominated. Terminal waiting areas
    were jammed with thousands of passengers from delayed or canceled flights.
    Baggage, in piles, was everywhere. The vast main concourse had the combined
    appearance of a football scrimmage and Christmas Eve at Macy's.
    High on the terminal roof, the airport's immodest slogan, LINCOLN
    INTERNATIONAL-AVIATION CROSSROADS OF THE WORLD, was entirely obscured by
    drifting snow.
    The wonder was, Mel Bakersfeld reflected, that anything was continuing to
    operate at all.
    Mel, airport general manager-lean, rangy, and a powerhouse of disciplined
    energy-was standing by the Snow Control Desk, high in the control tower. He
    peered out into the darkness. Normally, from this glasswalled room, the
    entire airport complex-runways, taxi strips, terminals, traffic of the
    ground and air-was visible like neatly aligned building blocks and models,
    even at night their shapes and movements well defined by lights. Only one
    loftier view existed-that of Air Traffic Control which occupied the two
    floors above.
    But tonight only a faint blur of a few nearer lights penetrated the
    almost-opaque curtain of wind-driven snow. Mel suspected this would be a
    winter to be discussed at meteorologists' conventions for years to come.
    The present storm had been born five days ago in the lee of the Colorado
    mountains. At birth it was a tiny low pressure area, no bigger than a
    foothills homestead, and most forecasters on their air route weather charts
    had either failed to notice, or ignored it. As if in resentment, the low
    pressure system thereupon inflated like a giant malignancy and, still
    growing, swung first southeast, then north.
    It crossed Kansas and Oklahoma, then paused at Arkansas, gathering assorted
    nastiness. Next day, fat and monstrous, it rumbled up the Mississippi
    Valley. Finally, over Illinois the storm unloaded, almost paralyzing the
    state with blizzard winds, freezing temperatures, and a ten-inch snowfall
    in twenty-four hours.
   At the airport, the ten-inch snow had been preceded
  6                            AIRPORT

  by a continuous, if somewhat lighter, fall. Now it was being followed by
  more snow, whipped by vicious winds which piled new drifts-at the same
  time that plows were clearing the old. Maintenance snow crews were nearing
  exhaustion. Within the past few hours several men had been ordered home,
  overfatigued despite their intermittent use of sleeping quarters provided
  at the airport for just this kind of emergency.
    At the Snow Control Desk near Mel, Danny Farrow -at other times an
    assistant airport manager, now snow shift supervisor-was calling
    Maintenance Snow Center by radiophone.
    "We're losing the parking lots. I need six more Payloaders and a banjo
    team at Y-seventy-four."
    Danny was seated at the Snow Desk, which was not really a desk at all,
    but a wide, three-position console. Confronting Danny and his two
    assistants-one on either side-was a battery of telephones, Tel Auto-
    graphs, and radios. Surrounding them were maps, charts, and bulletin
    boards recording the state and location of every piece of motorized
    snow-fighting equipment, as well as men and supervisors. There was a
    separate board for banjo teams-roving crews with individual snow shovels.
    The Snow Desk was activated only for its one seasonal purpose. At other
    times of year, this room remained empty and silent.
    Danny's bald pate showed sweat globules as he scratched notations on a
    large-scale airport grid map. He repeated his message to Maintenance,
    making it sound like a desperate personal plea, which perhaps it was. Up
    here was the snow clearance command post. Whoever ran it was supposed to
    view the airport as a whole, juggling demands, and deploying equipment
    wherever need seemed greatest. A problem thoughand undoubtedly a cause
    of Danny's sweating-was that those down below, fighting to keep their own
    operations going, seldom shared the same view of priorities.
    "Sure, sure. Six more Payloaders." An edgy voice from Maintenance, which
    was on the opposite side of the airfield, rattled the speakerphone.
    "We'll get 'em
                        AIRPORT                           7

  from Santa Claus. He ought to be around in this lot." A pause, then more
  aggressively, "Any other damnfool stupid notions?"
    Glancing at Danny, Mel shook his head. He recognized the speakerphone voice
    as belonging to a senior foreman who had probably worked continuously since
    the present snowfall started. Tempers wore thin at times like this, with
    gopd reason. Usually, after an arduous, snow-fighting winter, airport
    maintenance and management had an evening stag session together which they
    called "kiss-and-make-up night." They would certainly need one this year.
    Danny said reasonably, "We sent four Payloaders after that United food
    truck. They should be through, or almost."
   "They might be-if we could find the frigging truck."
    "You haven't located it yet? What are you guys doing -having a supper and
    ladies' night." Danny reached out, turning down the speakerphone volume as
    a reply slammed back.
    "Listen, do you birds in the crummy penthouse have any idea what it's like
    out on the field? Maybe you should look out the windows once in a while.
    Anybody could be at the goddam North pole tonight and never know the
    difference."
    "Try blowing on your hands, Ernie," Danny said. "It may keep 'em warm, and
    it'll stop you sounding off."
    Mentally, Mel Bakersfeld filtered out most of the exchange, though he was
    aware that what had been said about conditions away from the terminal was
    true. An hour ago, Mel had driven across the airfield. He used service
    roads, but although he knew the airport layout intimately, tonight he had
    trouble finding his way and several times came close to being lost.
    Mel had gone to inspect the Maintenance Snow Center and then, as now,
    activity had been intensive. Where the tower Snow Control Desk was a
    command post, the Maintenance Snow Center was a front line headquarters.
    From here, weary crews and supervisors came and went, alternately sweating
    and freezing, the
  8                            AIRPORT

  tanks of regular workers swelled by auxiliaries-carpenters, electricians,
  plumbers, clerks, police. The auxiliaries were pulled from their regular
  airport duties and paid time-and-a-half until the snow emergency was over.
  But they knew what was expected, having rehearsed snow maneuvers, like
  weekend soldiers, on runways and taxi strips during summer and fall. It
  sometimes amused outsiders to see snow removal groups, plow blades down,
  blowers roaring, on a hot, sunny day. But if any expressed surprise at the
  extent of preparation, Mel Bakersfeld would remind them that removing snow
  from the airport's operating area was equal to clearing seven hundred
  miles of highway.
    Like the Snow Desk in the control tower, the Maintenance Snow Center was
    activated for its winter function only. It was a big, cavernous room
    above an airport truck garage and, when in use, was presided over by a
    dispatcher. Judging from the present radio voice, Mel guessed that the
    regular dispatcher had been relieved for the time being, perhaps for some
    sleep in the "Blue Room," as Airport Standing Orders-with a trace of
    humor-called the snow crews' bunkhouse.
    The maintenance foreman's voice came on the radiophone again. "We're
    worried about that truck too, Danny. The poor bastard of a driver could
    freeze out there. Though if he has any gumption, he isn't starving."
    The UAL food truck had left the airline flight kitchen for the main
    terminal nearly two hours ago. Its route lay around the perimeter track,
    a journey which usually took fifteen minutes. But the truck had failed
    to arrive, and obviously the driver had lost his way and was snowbound
    somewhere in the airport boondocks. United flight dispatch had first sent
    out its own search party, without success. Now airport management had
    taken over.
    Mel said, "That United flight finally took off, didn't it? Without food."
    Danny Farrow answered without looking up. "I hear the captain put it to
    the passengers. Told them it'd take
                        AIRPORT                           9

  an hour to get another truck, that they had a movie and liquor aboard, and
  the sun was shining in California. Everybody voted to get the hell out. I
  would, too."
    Mel nodded, resisting a temptation to take over and direct the search
    himself for the missing truck and driver. Action would be a therapy. The
    cold of several days, and dampness with it, had made Mel's old war injury
    ache again-a reminder of Korea which never left him-and he could feel it
    now. He shifted, leaning, letting the good foot take his weight. The relief
    was momentary. Almost at once, in the new position, the ache resumed.
    He was glad, a moment later, that he had not interfered. Danny was already
    doing the right thing-intensifying the truck search, pulling plows and men
    from the terminal area and directing them to the perimeter road. For the
    time being, the parking lots would have to be abandoned, and later there
    would be plenty of beefs about that. But the missing driver must be saved
    first.
    Between calls, Danny warned Mel, "Brace yourself for more complaints. This
    seaxch'Il block the perimeter road. We'll hold up all the other food trucks
    till we find the guy. 11
    Mel nodded. Complaints were a stock-in-trade of an airport manager's job.
    In this case, as Danny predicted, there would be a flood of protests when
    other airlines realized their food trucks were not getting through,
    whatever the reason.
    There were some who would find it hard to believe that a man could be in
    peril of death from exposure at a center of civilization like an airport,
    but it could happen just the same. The lonelier limits of the airport were
    no place to wander without bearings on a night like this. And if the driver
    decided to stay with his truck and keep the motor running for warmth, it
    could quickly be covered by drifts, with deadly carbon monoxide accu-
    mulating beneath.
    With one hand, Danny was using a red telephone; with the other, leafing
    through emergency orders-Mel's orders, carefully drawn up for occasions
    such as this.
  10                           AIRPORT

    The red phone was to the airport's duty fire chief. Danny summarized the
    situation so far.
    "And when we locate the truck, let's get an ambulance out there, and you
    may need an inhalator or heat, could be both. But better not roll until
    we know where exactly. We don't want to dig you guys out, too."
    The sweat, in increasing quantity, was gleaming on Danny's balding head.
    Mel was aware that Danny disliked running the Snow Control Desk and was
    happier in his own department of air-port planning, sifting logistics and
    hypotheses of aviation's future. Such things were comfortably projected
    well ahead, with time to think, not disconcertingly here-and-now like the
    problems of tonight. Just as there were people who lived in the past, Met
    thought, for the Danny Farrows, the future was a refuge. But, unhappy or
    not, and despite the sweat, Danny was coping.
    Reaching over Danny's shoulder, Mel picked up a direct line phone to Air
    Traffic Control. The tower watch chief answered.
   "What's the story on that A6reo-Mexican 707?"
    "Still there, Mr. Bakersfeld. They've been working a couple of hours
    trying to move it. No luck yet."
    That particular trouble had begun shortly after dark when an
    A6reo-Mexican captain, taxiing out for takeoff, mistakenly passed to the
    right instead of left of a blue taxi light. Unfortunately, the ground to
    the right, which was normally grass covered, had a drainage problem, due
    to be worked on when winter ended. Meanwhile, despite the heavy snow,
    there was still a morass of mud beneath the surface. Within seconds of
    its wrong-way turn, the hundred and twenty ton aircraft was deeply mired.
    When it became obvious that the aircraft could not get out, loaded, under
    its own power, the disgruntled passengers were disembarked and helped
    through mud and snow to hastily hired buses. Now, more than two hours
    later, the big jet was still stuck, its fuselage and tail blocking ninway
    three zero.
    Mel inquired, "The runway and taxi strip are still out of use?"
                        AIRPORT                          11

    "Affirmative," the tower chief reported. "We're holding all outbound
    traffic at the gates, then sending them the long route to the other
    runways."
   "Pretty slow?"
    "Slowing us fifty percent. Right now we're holding ten flights for taxi
    clearance, another dozen waiting to start engines."
    It was a demonstration, Mel reflected, of how urgently the airport needed
    additional runways and taxiways. For three years he had been urging
    construction of a new runway to parallel three zero, as well as other
    operational improvements. But the Board of Airport Commissioners, under
    political pressure from downtown, refused to approve. The pressure was
    because city councilmen, for reasons of their own, wanted to avoid a new
    bond issue which would be needed for financing.
    "The other thing," the tower watch chief said, "is that with three zero out
    of use, we're having to route takeoffs over Meadowood. The complaints have
    started co i g in already."
    Mel groaned. The community of Meadowood, which adjoined the southwest
    hinits of the airfield, was a constant thom to himself and an impediment to
    flight operations. Though the airport had been established long before the
    community, Meadowood's residents complained incessantly and bitterly about
    noise from aircraft overhead. Press publicity followed. It attracted even
    more complaints, with increasingly bitter denunciations of the airport and
    its management. Eventually, after long negotiations involving politics,
    more publicity and -in Mel Bakerfeld's opinion-gross misrepresentation, the
    airport and the Federal Aviation Administration had conceded that jet
    takeoffs and landings directly over Meadowood would be made only when
    essential in special circumstances. Since the airport was already lim.ited
    in its available runways, the loss in efficiency was considerable.
    Moreover, it was also agreed that aircraft taking off toward Meadowood
    would-almost at once after becoming airborne-follow noise abatement
    procedures. This, in turn, produced protests from pilots, who consid-
    
      12                          AIRPORT

  ered the procedures dangerous. T'he airlines, however -conscious of the
  public furor and their corporate images-had ordered the pilots to conform.
    Yet even this failed to satisfy the Meadowood residents. Their militant
    leaders were still protesting, organizing, and-according to latest
    rumors-planning legal harassment of the airport.
    Mel asked the tower watch chief, "How many calls bave there been?" Even
    before the answer, he decided glumly that still more hours of his working
    days were going to be consumed by delegations, argument, and the same
    insoluble discussions as before.
    "I'd say fifty at least, we've answered; and there've been others we
    haven't. The phones start ringing right after every takeoff-our unlisted
    lines, too. I'd give a lot to know how they get the numbers."
    "I suppose you've told the people who've called that we've a special
    situation-the storm, a runway out of use."
    "We explain. But nobody's interested. They just want the airplanes to
    stop coming over. Some of 'em say that problems or not, pilots are still
    supposed to use noise abatement procedures, but tonight they aren't doing
    it."
    "Good God!-if I were a pilot neither would L" How could anyone of
    reasonable intelligence, Mel wondered, expect a pilot, in tonight's
    violent weather, to chop back his power immediately after takeoff, and
    then go into a steeply banked turn on instruments-which was what noise
    abatement procedures called for.
    "I wouldn't either," the tower chief said. "Though I guess it depends on
    your point of view. If I lived in Meadowood, maybe I'd feel the way they
    do."
    "You wouldn't live in Meadowood. You'd have listened to the warnings we
    gave people, years ago, not to build houses there."
    "I guess so. By the way, one of my people told me there's another
    community meeting over there tonight."
   "In this weather?"
    "Seems they still plan to hold it, and the way we heard, they're cooking
    up something new."
                         AIRPORT                          13

    "Whatever it is," Mel predicted, "we'll hear about it soon."
    Just the same, he reflected, if there was a public meeting at Meadowood, it
    was a pity to provide fresh ammunition so conveniently. Almost certainly
    the press and local politicians would be present, and the direct flights
    overhead, however necessary at this moment, would give them plenty to write
    and talk about. So the sooner the blocked runway-three zero-was back in
    use, the better it would be for all concerned.
    "In a little while," he told the tower chief, "I'll go out on the field
    myself and see what's happening. I'll let you know what the situation is."
   "Right.,~
    Changing the subject, Mel inquired, "Is my brother on duty tonight?"
   "Affirmative. Keith's on radar watch-west arrival."
    West arrival, Mel knew, was one of the tough, tense positions in the tower.
    It involved supervising all incoming flights in the west quadrant. Mel
    hesitated, then remembered he had known the tower watch chief a long time.
    "Is Keith all right? Is he showing any strain?"
    There was a slight pause before the answer. "Yes, he is. I'd say more than
    usual."
    Between the two men was the knowledge that Mel's younger brother had lately
    been a source of anxiety to them both.
    "Frankly," the tower chief said, "I wish I could let him take things
    easier. But I can't. We're short-staffed and everybody is under the gun."
    He added, "Including me.9~
    "I know you are, and I appreciate your watching out for Keith the way you
    have."
    "Well, in this job most of us have combat fatigue at one time or another."
    Mel could sense the other choosing his words carefully. "Sometimes it shows
    up in the mind, sometimes in the gut. Either way, when it happens we try to
    help each other."
    "Thanks." The conversation had not eased Mel's anxiety. "I may drop in
    later."
   "Right, sir." Thetower chief hung up.
  14                          AIRPORT

    The "sir" was strictly a courtesy. Mel bad no authority over ATC, which
    answered only to the Federal Aviation Administration with headquarters
    in Washington. But relationships between controllers and airport
    management were good, and Mel saw to it they stayed that way.
    An airport, any airport, was an odd complexity of overlapping authority.
    No single individual had supreme command, yet no one segment was entirely
    independent. As airport general manager, Mel's was closest to an over-all
    assignment, but there were areas where be knew better than to intrude.
    Air Traffic Control was one, airline internal management another. He
    could, and did, intervene in matters affecting the airport as a whole or
    the welfare of people using it. He could peremptorily order an airline
    to remove a door sign which was misleading or faded to conform to
    terminal standards. But what went on behind the doors was, within reason,
    the airline's exclusive business.
    This was why an airport manager needed to be a tactician as well as
    versatile administrator.
    Mel replaced the Snow Desk telephone. On another line, Danny Farrow was
    arguing with the parking lot supervisor, a harassed individual who for
    several hours had been fielding irate complaints from marooned car
    owners. People were asking: didn't whoever ran the airport know it was
    snowing? And if they did, why didn't someone get on the ball and move the
    stuff so a man could drive his car anywhere at any time, as was his
    democratic right?
    "Tell 'em we declared a dictatorship." The non-covered lots, Danny
    insisted, would have to wait until priorities eased. He would send men
    and equipment when he could. He was interrupted by a call from the tower
    watch chief. A new weather forecast predicted a wind shift in an hour.
    It would mean a change of runways, and could they hurry the plowing of
    runway one seven, left? He would do his best, Danny said. He'd check with
    the Conga Line supervisor and call the tower back.
    It was the kind of pressure, unremitting, which had gone on for three
    days and nights since the present
                        AIRPORT                          15

  snowfall started. The fact that the pressure had been met made affl the more
  irritating a note, delivered to Met by messenger, fifteen minutes ago. The
  note read:

        M_

        thought slid warn u-airlines snow committee (on vern demerest's urging
        . . . why does your bro-in-law dislike you?) filing critical report
        becos runways & taxiways snow clearance (v. d. says) lousy,
        inefficient ...

        report blames airport (meaning u) for main hunk of flight delays ...
        also claims stuck 707 wouldn't have if taxiway plowed sooner, better.
        . . so now all airlines being penalized, etc, etc, you get the drift
        ... and where are youin one? (drift, i mean) ... climb out & buy me
        coffee soon.

luv t

    The "t" was for Tanya-Tanya Livingston, passenger relations agent for Trans
    America, and a special friend of Mel's. Mel read the note again, as he
    usually did messages from Tanya, which became clearer the second time
    around. Tanya, whose job straddled troubleshooting and public relations,
    objected to capitals. ("Mel, doesn't it make sense? If we abolished
    capitals there'd be scads less trouble. Just look at the newspapers.") She
    had actually coerced a Trans America mechanic into chiseling all capitals
    from the typebars of her office typewriter. Someone higher up raised bob
    about that, Mel had heard, quoting the airline's rigid rule about willful
    damage to company property. Tanya had got away with it, though. She usually
    did.
   The Vern Demerest in the note was Captain Vernon
  16                          AIRPORT

  Demerest, also of Trans America. As well as being one of the airline's more
  senior captains, Demerest was a militant campaigner for the Air Line Pilots
  Association, and, this season, a member of the Airlines Snow Committee at
  Lincoln International. The committee inspected runways and taxiways during
  snow periods and pronounced them fit, or otherwise, for aircraft use. It
  always included an active flying captain.
    Vernon Demerest also happened to be Mel's brother-in-law, married to Mel's
    older sister, Sarah. The Bakersfeld clan, through precedent and marriage,
    had roots and branches in aviation, just as older families were once allied
    with seafaring. However, there was little cordiality between Mel and his
    brother-in-law, whom Mel considered conceited and pompous. Others, he knew,
    held the same opinion. Recently, Mel and Captain Demerest had had an angry
    exchange at a meeting of the Board of Airport Commissioners, where Demerest
    appeared on behalf of the pilots' association. Mel suspected that the
    critical snow report-apparently initiated by his brother-in-law-was in
    retaliation.
    Mel was not greatly worried about the report. Whatever shortcomings the
    airport might have in other ways, he knew they were coping with the storm
    as well as any organization could. Just the same, the report was a nui-
    sance. Copies would go to all airlines, and tomorrow there would be
    inquiring phone calls and memos, and a need for explanations.
    Mel supposed he had better stay briefed, in readiness. He decided he would
    make an inspection of the present snow clearance situation at the same time
    that he was out on the airfield checking on the blocked runway and the
    mired Afteo-Mexican jet.
    At the Snow Desk, Danny Far-row was talking with Airport Maintenance again.
    When there was a moment's break, Mel interjected, "I'll. be in the
    terminal, then on the field."
    He had remembered what Tanya said in her note about having coffee together.
    He would stop at his own office first, then, on his way through the
    terminal, he would drop by Trans America to see her. The thought excited
    him.
                        AIRPORT                          17

                           2

  Mel used the private elevator, which operated by passkey only, to descend
  from the tower to the administrative mezzanine. Though his own office
  suite was silent, with stenographers' desks cleared and typewriters
  covered, the lights had been left on. He entered his own interior office.
  From a closet, near the wide mahogany desk he used in daytime, he took out
  a heavy topcoat and fur-lined boots.
    Tonight Mel himself was without specific duties at the airport. This was
    as it should be. The reason he had stayed, through most of the three-day
    storm, was to be available for emergencies. Otherwise, he mused, as he
    pulled on the boots and laced them, by now he would have been home with
    Cindy and the children.
   Or would he?
    No matter how objective you tried to be, Mel reasoned, it was hard to be
    sure of your own real motives. Probably, if it had not been the storm,
    something else would have arisen to justify not going. Not going home,
    in fact, seemed lately to have become the pattern of his life. His job
    was a cause, of course. It provided plenty of reasons to remain extra
    hours at the airport, where lately there had been big problems facing
    him, quite apart from tonight's imbroglio. But-if he was honest with
    himself-the airport also offered an escape from the incessant wrangling
    between himself and Cindy which seemed to occur nowadays whenever they
    spent time together.
    "Oh, hell!" Mel's exclamation cut across the silence of the office.
    He plodded in the fur-lined boots toward his desk. A glance at a typed
    reminder from his secretary confirmed what he had just recalled. Tonight
    there was another of his wife's tedious charity affairs. A week ago,
    reluctantly, Mel had promised to attend. It was a cocktail party and
    dinner (so the typed note said), downtown at
  18                          AIRPORT

  the swank Lake Michigan Inn. What the charity was, the note didn't specify,
  and, if it bad ever been mentioned, be had since forgotten. It made no
  difference, though. The causes with which Cindy Bakersfeld involved herself
  were depressingly similar. The test of worthiness--as Cindy saw it-was the
  social eminence of her fellow committee members.
    Fortunately, for the sake of peace with Cindy, the starting time was
    late-almost two hours from now and in view of tonight's weather, it might
    be even later. So he could still make it, even after inspecting the
    airfield. Mel could come back, shave and change in his office, and be
    downtown only a little late. He had better warn Cindy, though. Using a
    direct outside line, Mel dialed his home number.
   Roberta, his elder daughter, answered.
   "Hi," Mel said. "This is your old man."
    Roberta's voice came coolly down the line. "Yes, I know."
   "How was school today?"
    "Could you be specific, Father? There were several classes. Which do you
    want to know about?"
    Mel sighed. There were days on which it seemed to him that his home life
    was disintegrating all at once. Roberta, he could tell, was in what Cindy
    called one of her snotty moods. Did all fathers, he wondered, abruptly lose
    communication with their daughters at age thirteen? Less than a year ago,
    the two of them had seemed as close as father and daughter could be. Mel
    loved both his daughters deeply-Roberta, and her younger sister, Libby.
    There were times when he realized they were the only reasons his marriage
    had survived. As to Roberta, he had known that as a teen-ager she would
    develop interests which he could neither share nor wholly understand. He
    had been prepared for this. What he had not expected was to be shut out
    entirely or treated with a mixture of indifference and condescension.
    Though, to be objective, he supposed the increasing strife between Cindy
    and himself bad not helped. Children were sensitive.
   "Never mind," Mel said. "Is your mother home?"
                        AIRPORT                          19

    "She went out. She said if you phoned to tell you you have to be downtown
    to meet her, and for once try not to be late."
   Mel curbed his irritation. Roberta was undoubtedly
  repeating Cind ' v's words exactly. He could almost hear
  his wife saying them.
    "If your mother calls, tell her I might have to be a little late, and
    that I can't help it." There was a silence, and he asked, "Did you hear
    me?"
    "Yes," Roberta said. "Is there anything else, Father? I have homework to
    do."
    He snapped back, "Yes, there is something else. You'll change your tone
    of voice, young lady, and show a little more respect. Furthermore, we'll
    end this conversation when I'm good and ready."
   "If you say so, Father."
   "And stop calling me Father!"
   "Very well, Father."
    Met was tempted to laugh, then supposed he had better not. He asked, "Is
    everything all right at home?"
   "Yes. But Libby wants to talk to you."
    "In a minute. I was just going to tell you-because of the storm I *may
    not be home tonight. There's a lot happening at the airport. I'll
    probably come back and sleep here."
    Again a pause, as if Roberta was weighing whether or not she could get
    away with a smart answer: So what else is new? Apparently she decided
    not. "Will you speak to Libby now?"
   "Yes, I will. Goodnight, Robbie."
   "Goodnight."
    There was an impatient shuffle as the telephone changed hands, then
    Libby's small breathless voice.
   "Daddy, Daddy! Guess what!"
    Libby was always breathless as if, to a seven-yearold, life were
    excitingly on the run and she must forever keep pace or be left behind.
    "Let me think," Mel said. "I know-you had fun in the snow today."
   "Yes, I did, But it wasn't that."
   "Then I can't guess. You'll have to tell me."
  20                          AIRPORT

    "Well, at school, Miss Curzon said for homework we have to write down all
    the good things we think will happen next month."
    He thought affectionately: he could understand Libby's enthusiasm. To
    her, almost everything was exciting and good, and the few things which
    were not were brushed aside and speedily forgotten. He wondered how much
    longer her happy innocence would last.
   "That's nice," Mel said. "I like that."
   "Daddy, Daddy! Will you help me?"
   "If I can."
   "I want a map of February."
    Mel smiled. Libby had a verbal shorthand of her own which sometimes
    seemed more expressive than conventional words. It occurred to him that
    he could use a map of February himself.
    "There's a calendar in my desk in the den." Mel told her where to find
    it and heard her small feet running from the room, the telephone
    forgotten. It was Roberta, Mel assumed, who silently hung up.

    From the general manager's office suite, Mel walked onto the executive
    mezzanine which ran 'the length of the main terminal building. He carried
    the heavy topcoat with him.
    Pausing, he surveyed the thronged concourse below, which seemed to have
    become even busier within the past half-hour. In waiting areas, every
    available seat was occupied. Newsstands and information booths were
    ringed by crowds, among them many military uniforms. In front of all
    airline passenger counters were line-ups, some extending around corners
    out of sight. Behind the counters, ticket agents and supervisors, their
    normal numbers swelled by colleagues from earlier shifts retained on
    overtime, had schedules and passage coupons spread out like orchestral
    scores.
    Delays and reroutings which the storm had caused were taxing both
    scheduling and human patience. Immediately below Met, at Braniff
    ticketing, a youngish man with long, blond hair and a yellow scarf was
    proclaiming loudly, "You've the effrontery to tell me I must
                        AIRPORT                          21

  go to Kansas City to get to New Orleans. You people are rewriting
  geography! You're mad with power!"
    The ticket agent facing him, an attractive brunette in her twenties,
    brushed a band over her eyes before answering with professional patience,
    "We can route you directly, sir, but we don't know when. Because of the
    weather, the longer way will be faster and the fare is the same. "
    Behind the yellow-scarfed man, more passengers with other problems
    pressed forward urgently.
    At the United counter, a small pantomime was being played. A would-be
    passenger-a well-dressed businessman-leaned for-ward, speaking quietly.
    By the man's expression and actions, Mel Bakersfeld could guess what was
    being said. "I would very much like to get on that next flight."
    "I'm sorry, sir, the flight is fully booked. There's also a long standby
    . . ." Before the ticket agent could complete his sentence, he glanced
    up. The passenger had laid his briefcase on the counter in front of him.
    Gently, but pointedly, he was tapping a plastic baggage tag against a
    corner of the case. It was a 100,000-Mile Club tag, one of those United
    issued to its favored friendsan inner elite which all airlines had helped
    create. The agent's expression changed. His voice became equally low. "I
    think we'll manage something, sir." The agent's pencil hovered, crossed
    out the name of another passenger-an earlier arrival whom he had been
    about to put on the flight-and inserted the newcomer's name instead. The
    action was unobserved by those in line behind.
    The same kind of thing, Mel knew, went on at all airline counters
    everywhere. Only the naYve or uninformed believed wait lists and
    reservations were operated with unwavering impartiality.
    Met observed that a group of new arrivals-presumably from downtown-was
    entering the terminal. They were beating off snow from their clothing as
    they came in, and judging from their appearance, it seemed that the
    weather outside must be worsening. The newcomers were quickly absorbed
    in the general crowds.
  22                          AIRPORT

    Few among the eighty thousand or so air travelers who thronged the
    terminal daily ever glanced up at the executive mezzanine, and fewer
    still were aware of Mel tonight, high above them, looking down. Most
    people who thought about airports did so in terms of airlines and
    airplanes. It was doubtful if many were even aware that executive offices
    existed or that an administrative machine-unseen, but complex and
    employing hundreds-was constantly at work, keeping the airport
    functioning.
    Perhaps it was as well, Mel thought, as he rode the elevator down again.
    If people became better informed, in time they would also learn the
    airport's weaknesses and dangers, and afterward fly in and out with less
    assurance than before.
    On the main concourse, he headed toward the Trans America wing. Near the
    check-in counters, a uniformed supervisor stepped forward. "Evening, Mr.
    Bakersfeld. Were you looking for Mrs. Livingston?"
    No matter how busy the airport became, Mel thought, there would always
    be time for gossip. He wondered how widely his own name and Tanya's had
    been linked already.
   "Yes," be said. "I was."
    The supervisor nodded toward a door marked, AIRLINE PERSONNEL ONLY.
    "You'll find her through there, Mr. Bakersfeld. We just had a bit of a
    crisis here. She's taking care of it."

                            3

  In a small private lounge which was sometimes used for VIPs, the young
  girl in the uniform of a Trans America ticket agent was sobbing
  hysterically.
   Tanya Livingston steered her to a chair. "Make your-                        AIRPORT                          23

  self comfortable," Tanya said practically, "and take your time. You'll
  feel better afterward, and when you're ready we can talk."
    Tanya sat down herself, smoothing her trim, tight uniform skirt. There
    was no one else in the room, and the only sound-apart from the crying-was
    the faint hum of air-conditioning.
    There was fifteen years or so difference in age between the two women.
    The girl was not much more than twenty, Tanya in her late thirties.
    Watching, Tanya felt the gap to be greater than it was. It came, she
    supposed, from having been exposed to marriage, even though briefly and
    a long time ago-or so it seemed.
    She thouorht: it was the second time she had been conscious of her age
    today. The first was while combing her hair this morning; she had seen
    telltale strands of gray among the short-cropped, flamboyant red. There
    was more of the gray than last time she had checked a month or so ago,
    and both occasions were reminders that her forties-by which time a woman
    ought to know where she was going and why-were closer than she liked to
    think about. She had another thought: in fifteen years from now, her own
    daughter would be the same age as the girl who was crying.
    The girl, whose name was Patsy Smith, wiped reddened eyes with a large
    linen handkerchief which Tanya had given her. She spoke with difficulty,
    choking back more tears. "They wouldn't talk that way ... so mean, rudely
    ... at home . . . not to their wives."
   "You mean passengers wouldn't?"
   The girl nodded.
    "Some would," Tanya said. "When you're married, Patsy, you may find out,
    though I hope not. But if you're telling me that men behave like
    adolescent boors when their travel plans get crossed up, I'll agree with
    you. 11
    "I was doing my best We all were . . . All day today; and yesterday ...
    the day before ... But the way people talk to you . . ."
    "You mean they act as if you started the storm yourself. Especially to
    inconvenience them."
  24                          AIRPORT

    "Yes ... And then that last man ... Until him, I was all right . . ."
    "What happened exactly? They called me when it was all over."
   The girt was beginning to regain control of herself.
    "Well ... he had a ticket on Flight 72, and that was canceled because of
    weather. We got him a seat on 114, and he missed it. He said he was in the
    dining room and didn't hear the flight called."
    "Flight announcements aren't made in the di i g room," Tanya said. "There's
    a big notice saying so, and its on all the menus."
    "I explained that, Mrs. Livingston, when he came back from the departure
    gate. But he was still nasty. He was going on as if it were my fault he'd
    missed the flight, not his. He said we were all inefficient and half
    asleep."
   "Did you call your supervisor?"
   "I tried to, but he was busy. We all were."
   "So what did you do?"
    "I got the passenger a seat--on the extra section, 2122."
   "And?"
    "He wanted to know what movie was showing on the flight. I found that out,
    and he said he'd seen it. He got nasty again. The movie he'd wanted to see
    was on the first flight which was canceled. He said, could I get him
    another flivht which was showing the same movie as the first one? All the
    time, there were other passengers; they were pressing up a(Zainst the
    counter. Some were making remarks out loud about how slow I was. Well, when
    he said that about the movie, that was when I The girl hesitated. "I guess
    something snapped."
    Tanya prompted, "That was when you threw the timetable?"
    Patsy Smith nodded miserably. She looked as if she were going to cry again.
    "Yes. I don't know what got into me, Mrs. Livingston . . . I threw it right
    over the counter. I told him he could fix his own flight."
    "All I can say," Tanya said, "is that I hope you hit him."
                        AIRPORT                          25

    The girl looked up. In place of tears, there was the beginning of a
    smile. "Oh, yes; I did." She thought, then giggled. "You should have seen
    his face. He was so surprised." Her expression became serious. "Then,
    after that . . ."
    "I know what happened after that. You broke down, which was a perfectly
    natural thing to do. You were sent in here to finish your cry, and now
    you have, you're going home in a taxi."
   The girl looked bemused. "You mean ... that's all?"
   "Certainly it's all. Did you expect us to fire you?"
   "I . . . I wasn't sure."
    "We might have to," Tanya said, "much as we'd disRe it, Patsy, if you did
    the same thing again. But you won't, will you? Not ever."
    ne girl shook her head firmly. "No, I won't. I can't explain, but having
    done it just once is enough."
    "That's the end of it,, then. Except that you might like to hear what
    happened after you left."
   "Yes, please."
    "A man came forward. He was one of those in the line-up, and he said he
    heard, and saw, the whole thing. He also said he had a daughter the same
    age as you, and ff the first man had talked to his daughter the same way
    he talked to you, he would personally have punched him in the nose. Then
    the second man-the one from the line-up-left his name and address, and
    said if the man you had been talking to ever made any kind of complaint,
    to let him know and he would report what really happened." Tanya smiled.
    "So, you see-there are nice people, too."
    "I know," the girl said. "T'here aren't many, but when you do get one
    like that, who's nice to you, and cheerful, you feel you want to hug
    him."
    "Unfortunately we can't do that, any more than we should throw
    timetables. Our job is to treat everyone alike, and be courteous, even
    when passengers are not."
   "Yes, Mrs. Livingston."
    Patsy Smith would be all right, Tanya decided. Apparently, she hadn't
    thought of quitting, as some airls did who suffered simflar experiences.
    In fact, now that
  26                           AIRPORT

  she was over her emotion, Patsy seemed to have the kind of resilience
  which would be helpful to her in future.
    God knows, Tanya thought, you needed resilienceand some toughness-in
    dealing with the traveling public, whatever job you held.
   Take Reservations.
    Downtown in reservation departments, she was aware, personal pressures
    would be even greater than at the airport. Since the storm began,
    reservation clerks would have made thousands of calls advising passengers
    of delays and rearrangements. It was a job the clerks all hated because
    people whom they catled were invariably bad-tempered and frequently
    abusive. Airline delays seemed to arouse a latent savagery in those
    affected by them. Men talked insultingly to women telepbonists, and even
    people who at other times were courteous and mild-mannered, turned snarly
    and disagreeable. New York-bound flights were worst of all. Reservation
    clerks had been known to refuse the assignment of telephoning news of
    delay or cancellation to a flight load of passengers destined for New
    York, preferring to risk their jobs rather than face the torrent of
    invective they knew awaited them. Tanya had often speculated on what it
    was about New York which infected those headed there with a kind of
    medicine-dance fervor to arrive.
    But, for whatever reasons, she knew there would be resignations among
    airline staffs-in Reservations and elsewhere-when the present emergency
    was over. There always were. A few nervous breakdowns could be counted
    on, too, usually among the younger girls, more sensitive to passengers'
    rudeness and ill humor. Constarit politeness, even when you were trained
    for it, was a strain which took a heavy toll.
    She was glad, though, that Patsy Smith would not be among the casualties.
    There was a knock at the outer door. It opened, and Mel Bakersfeld leaned
    in. He was wearing fleece-lined boots and carrying a heavy topcoat. "I
    was coming by," he told Tanya. "I can drop back later, if you like."
                        AIRPORT                          27

    "Please stay." She smiled a welcome. "We've almost finished."
    She watched him as he walked to a chair across the room. He looked tired,
    Tanya thought.
    She switched her attention back, filled in a voucher, and handed it to the
    girl. "Give this to the taxi dispatcher, Patsy, and he'll send you home.
    Have a good night's rest, and we'll expect you back tomorrow, bright and
    breezy."
    When the girl bad gone, Tanya swung her chair around to face Mel's. She
    said brightly, "Hullo."
    He put down a newspaper he had been glancing at, and grinned. "Hi!"
   "You got my note?"
    "I came to thank you for it. Though I might have made it here without."
    Gesturing to the door through which the girl had gone, he asked, "What was
    all that about? Battle fatigue?"
   "Yes." She told him what had happened.
    Mel laughed. "I'm tired, too. How about sending me off in a taxi?"
    Tanya looked at him, inquiringly. Her eyes-a bright, clear blue--had a
    quality of directness. Her head was tilted, and an overhead light reflected
    red highlights from her bair. A slim figure, yet with a fullness which the
    trim airline uniform heightened . . . Mel was conscious, as at other times,
    of her desirability and warmth.
    "I might consider it," she said. "If the taxi goes to my place, and you let
    me cook you dinner. Say, a Lamb Casserole."'
    He hesitated, weighing conflicting claims, then reluctantly shook his head.
    "I wish I could. But we've some trouble here, and afterward I have to be
    downtown." He got up. "Let's have coffee, anyway."
   "All right."
    Mel held the door open, and they went out into the bustling, noisy main
    concourse.
    There was a press of people around the Trans America counter, even greater
    than when Mel had arrived. "I mustn't take long," Tanya said. "I've stiR
    two hours more on duty."
  28                           AIRPORT

    As they threaded their way through the crowds and increasing piles of
    luggage, she moderated her normally brisk pace to Mel's slower one. He
    was limping rather more than usual, she noticed. She found herself
    wanting to take his arm and help him, but supposed she had better not.
    She was still in Trans America uniform. Gossip spread fast enough without
    helping it actively. The two of them had been seen a good deal lately in
    each other's company, and Tanya was sure that the airport rumor
    machine-which operated like a jungle telegraph with IBM speed-had already
    taken note. Probably it was assumed that she and Mel were bedding down
    together, though, as it happened, that much was untrue.
    They were headed for the Cloud Captain's Coffee Shop in the central
    lobby.
    "About that Lamb Casserole," Mel said. "Could we make it another night?
    Say, the day after tomorrow?"
    The sudden invitation from Tanya had surprised him. Although they had had
    several dates together-for drinks or dinner-until now she had not
    suggested visiting her apartment. Of course, going there could be for
    dinner only. Still there was always the possibility that it might not.
    Lately, Mel had sensed that if their meetings away from the airport
    continued, there could be a natural and obvious progression. But he had
    moved cautiously, instinct warning him that an affair with Tanya would
    be no casual romance but a deeply emotional involvement for them both.
    A consideration, also, was his own problems with Cindy. Those were going
    to take a lot of working out, if they could be worked out at all, and
    there was a limit to the number of complications a man could handle at
    one time. It was a strange commentary, be thought, that when a marriage
    was secure it seemed easier to manage an affair than when the same
    marriage was shaky. Just the same, Tanya's invitation seemed too enticing
    to pass up.
    "The day after tomorrow is Sunday," she pointed out. "But I'll be off
    duty, and if you can manage it, I'll have more time."
                        AIRPORT                          29

   Mel grinned. "Candies and wine?"
    He had forgotten it would be Sunday. But he would have to come to the
    airport anyway because, even if the storm moved on, there would be
    aftereffects. As to Cindy, there had been several Sundays when she had been
    out, herself, without an announced reason.
    Momentarily, Met and Tanya separated as she dodged a hurrying, florid-faced
    man, followed by a redcap with a loaded luggage cart, topped by golf clubs
    and tennis rackets. Wherever that load was going, Tanya thought enviously,
    it was a long way south.
    "Okay," she said when they rejoined. "Candles and wine."
    As they entered the coffee shop, a pert hostess recognized Mel and ushered
    him, ahead of others, to a small table at the rear, marked RESERVED, which
    airport officials often used. About to sit down, be stumbled slightly and
    grasped Tanya's arm. The observant hostess flicked her eyes over them both
    with a half-smfle. Rumor machine, stand by for a bulletin, Tanya thought.
    Aloud, she said, "Did you ever see such crowds? This has been the wildest
    three days I remember."
    Mel glanced around the packed coffee shop, its bedlam of voices punctuated
    by the clatter of dishes. He nodded toward the outer door through which
    they could both see a moving, surging swarm of people. "If you think this
    is a big horde tonight, wait until the civil version of the C-5A goes into
    service."
    "I know-we can barely cope with the 747s; but a thousand passengers
    arriving all at once at a check-in counter ... God help us!" Tanya
    shuddered. "Can you imagine what it'll be like when they collect their bag-
    gage? I don't even want to think about it."
    "Nor do a good many other people-who ought to be thinking about it, right
    now." He was amused to find that their conversation bad already drifted
    into aviation. Airplanes and airlines held a fascination for Tanya, and she
    liked talking about them. So did Mel, which was one of the reasons he
    enjoyed her company.
   "Which people aren't thinking?"
   "Those who control policy on the ground-airport
  30                          AIRPORT

  and air traffic. Most are acting as if today's jets will fly forever. They
  seem to believe that if everybody keeps quiet and std], the new, big
  airplanes will go away and not bother us. That way we needn't have ground
  facilities to match them."
    Tanya said thoughtfully, "But there's a lot of building at airports.
    Wherever you go, you see it."
    Mel offered her a cigarette and she shook her head negatively. He lit one
    for himself before answering.
    "Mostly the building going on is patchwork-changes and additions to
    airports built in the 1950s or early '60s. There's little that's farseeing.
    There are exceptions -Los Angeles is one; Tampa, Florida, and Dallas-Fort
    Worth are others; they'll be the first few airports in the world ready for
    the new mammoth jets and supersonics. Kansas City, Houston, and Toronto
    look good; San Francisco has a plan, though it may get sunk politicatly. In
    North America there's not much else that's impressive."
   "How about Europe?"
    "Europe is routine," Mel said, "except for Paris-the new Nord airport to
    replace Le Bourget will be among the finest yet. London is the kind of
    inefficient mess which only the English can create." He paused, consid-
    ering. "We shouldn't knock other countries, though; back home is bad
    enough. New York is frightening, even with changes being made at Kennedy;
    there simply isn't enough airspace above New York-I'm thinking of traveling
    there by train in future. Washington, D.C., is floundering-Washington
    National's a Black Hole of Calcutta; Dulles was a giant step sideways. And
    Chicago will wake up one day to find it let itself get twenty years
    behind." fie stopped, considering. "You remember a few years ago, when the
    jets first started flying-what conditions were like at airports which had
    been designed for DC-4s and Constellations."
    "I remember," Tanya said. "I worked at one. On normal days you couldn't
    move for the crowds; on busy days you couldn't breathe. We used to say it
    was like hoidin(y thc World Series in a sand lot."
   ,,what's coming in the 1970s," Mel predicted, "is
                        AIRPORT                          31

  going to be worse, far worse. And not just people congestion. We'll be
  choking on other things, too."
   "Such as what?"
    "Airways and traffic control for one, but that's another whole story. The
    really big thing, which most airport planning hasn't caught on to yet,
    is that we're moving toward the day-fast-wben air freight business wfll
    be bigger than passenger traffic. The same thing's been true with every
    form of transportation, starting with the birchbark canoe. To begin with,
    people are carried, plus a little freight; but before long, there's more
    freight than people. In airline business we're already closer to that
    than is generally known. When freight does get to be top dog-as will
    happen in the next ten years or so-a lot of our present airport ideas
    will be obsolete. If you want a sign of the way things are moving, watch
    some of the young men who are going into airline management now. Not long
    ago, hardly anybody wanted to work in air freight departments; it was
    backroorn stuff; passenger business had the glamour. Not any more! Now
    the bright boys are heading for air freight. They know that's where the
    future and the big promotions lie."
    Tanya laughed. "I'll be old-fashioned and stick with people. Somehow
    freight . . ."
    A waitress came to their table. "The special's off, and if we get many
    more people in here tonight, there won't be much else either."
    They ordered coffee, Tanya cinnamon toast, and Mel a fried egg sandwich.
    When the waitress had gone, Mel grinned. "I guess I started to make a
    speech. I'm sorry."
    "Maybe you need the practice." She regarded him curiously. "You haven't
    made many lately."
    "I'm not president of the Airport Operators Council any more. I don't get
    to Washington as much, or other places either." But it was not the whole
    reason for not making speeches and being less in the public eye. He
    suspected Tanya knew it.
    Curiously, it was a speech of Mel's which had brought them together to
    begin with. At one of the rare
  32                          AIRPORT

  interline meetings which airlines held, he had talked about coming
  developments in aviation, and the lag in ground organization compared with
  progress in the air. He had used the occasion as a dry run for a speech he
  intended to deliver at a national forum a week or so later. Tanya had been
  among the Trans America contingent, and next day had sent him one of her
  lower case notes:

        mr. b

        spch great. all'v us earthside slaves cheering u 4 admitting airport
        policymakers asleep at drawing boards. somebody needed 2 say it. mind
        suggestion? wd all be more alive if fewer fax, more abt people....
        passenger, once inside belly (airplane or whale, remember jonah?)
        thinks only of self, not system much. i'll bet orville/wilbur felt
        same way once off ground. wright?

                                                   ti

    As well as amusing him, the note bad caused him to think. It was true, he
    realized-he had concentrated on facts and systems to the exclusion of
    people as individuals. He revised his speech notes, shifting the emphasis
    as Tanya suggested. The result was the most successful presentation he had
    ever made. It gained him an ovation and was widely reported
    internationally. Afterward he bad telephoned Tanya tin thank her. That was
    when they had started seeing each other.
    The thought of Tanya's first message was a reminder of the note she had
    sent this evening. "I appreciate that tip about the snow committee report,
    though I'm curious how you managed to see it before I have."
    "No mystery. It was typed in the Trans America office. I saw our Captain
    Demerest checking it, and chortling."
   "Vernon showed it to you?"
                        AIRPORT                          33

    "No, but he had it spread out, and I'm adept to reading upside down. Which
    reminds me, you didn't answer my question: Why does your brother-in-law
    dislike you?';
    Mel grimaced. "I guess he knows I'm not overly keen on him."
    "If you wanted to," Tanya said, "you could tell him now. There's the great
    man himself." She nodded toward the cashier's desk, and Mel turned his
    head.
    Captain Vernon Dernerest of Trans America was counting out change as he
    paid a bill. A tall, broadshouldered, striking figure, he towered above
    others around him. He was dressed informally in a Harris tweed jacket and
    impeccably creased slacks, yet managed to convey an impression of
    authority-like a Regular Army General, Mel thought, temporarily in civilian
    clothes. Demerest's strong, aristocratic features were unsmiling as he
    addressed a four-striper Trans America captain-in uniform-who was with him.
    It appeared that Demerest was giving instructions; the other nodded.
    Captain Dernerest glanced briefly around the coffee shop and, observing Mel
    and Tanya, gave a curt, cool nod. Then, checking his watch, and with a
    final word to the other captain, he strode out.
    "He appeared in a hurry," Tanya said. "Though wherever fie's going, it
    won't be for long. Captain D. is taking Flight Two to Rome tonight."
   Mel smiled. "The Golden Argosy?"
   "No less. I see, sir, you read our advertising."
    "It's hard not to." Mel was aware, as were millions of others who admired
    the four-color double-page spreads in Life, Look, the Post, and other
    national magazines, that Trans America Fight Two-The Golden Argosy -was the
    airline's crack, prestige flight. He also knew that only the line's most
    senior captains ever commanded it.
    "It seems to be agreed," Mel said, "that Vernon is one of the finest pilots
    extant."
    "Oh yes, indeed. Extant and arrogant." Tanya hesitated, then confided, "If
    you're in a mood for gossip, you aren't alone in not caring for your
    brother-in-law. I heard one of our mechanics say not long ago, he was
  34                          AIRPORT

  ;orry there weren't propellers any more because he'd always hoped Captain
  Dernerest would walk into one."
   Mel said sharply, "That's a pretty savage thought."
    "I agree. Personally, I prefer what Mr. Youngquist, our president, is
    supposed to have said. I understand his instructions about Captain
    Demerest are: 'Keep that bumptious bastard out of my hair, but book me
    on his flights.' "
    Mel chuckled. Knowing both men, he felt sure the sally was true. He
    should not have let himself be drawn into a discussion about Vernon
    Demerest, he realized, but news of the adverse snow report and the
    nuisance effect it would have, still rankled. He wondered idly where his
    brother-in-law was going at the moment, and ff it involved one of his
    amorous adventures, of which -reportedly-there were a good many. Looking
    toward the central lobby, Mel saw that Captain Demerest had already been
    swallowed up in the crowds outside.
    Across the table, Tanya smoothed her skirt with a swift stroking gesture
    which Mel had noticed before and liked. It was a feminine habit and a
    reminder that few women looked as good in uniform, which often seemed to
    have a de-sexing effect, but with Tanya worked the opposite way.
    Some airlines, Mel knew, let their senior passenger agents out of
    uniform, but Trans America liked the authority which its jaunty blue and
    gold commanded. Two gold rings edged with white, on Tanya's cuffs, pro-
    claimed her Job and seniority.
    As if surmising his thoughts, she volunteered, "I may be out of uniform
    soon."
   "Why? 11
    "Our District Transportation Manager is being transferred to New York.
    The Assistant D.T.M. is moving up, and I've applied for his job."
    He regarded her with a mixture of admiration and curiosity. "I believe
    you'll get it. And that won't be the end, either."
    Her eyebrows went up. "You think I might make vice-president?"
                        AIRPORT                          35

    "I believe you could. That is, if it's the kind of thing you want. 1-o
    be the lady executive; all that."
    Tanya said softly, "I'm not sure if it's what I want, or not."
    The waitress brought their order. When they were alone again, Tanya said,
    "Sometimes us working girls don't get a lot of choice. If you're not
    satisfied to stay in the job you have through pension time-and lots of
    us aren't-the only way out is up."
   "You're excluding marriage?"
    She selected a piece of cinnamon toast. "I'm not excluding it. But it
    didn't work for me once, and it may not again. Besides which, there
    aren't many takers-eligible ones-for used bride with baby."
   "You might find an exception."
    "I might win the Irish Sweep. Speaking from experience, Met dear, I can
    tell you that men like their women unencumbered. Ask my ex-husband. If
    you can find him, that is; I never could."
   "He left you after your baby was born?"
    "Goodness, no! That way Roy would have had six months of responsibility.
    I think it was on a Thursday I told him I was pregnant; I couldn't have
    kept it to myself much longer. On Friday when I came home from work,
    Roy's clothes were gone. So was Roy."
   "You haven't seen him since?"
    She shook her head. "In the end, it made the divorce much
    simpler-desertion; no complications like another woman. I have to be
    fair, though. Roy wasn't all bad. He didn't empty our joint checking
    account, though he could have. I must admit I've sometimes wondered if
    it was kindness, or if he just forgot. Anyway, I had all that eighty
    dollars to myself."
   Mel said, "You've never mentioned that before."
   "Should I have?"
   "For sympathy, maybe."
    She shook her head. "If you understood me better, you'd know the reason
    I'm telling you now is because I don't need sympathy. Everything has
    worked out fine." Tanya smiled. "I may even get to be an airline vice-
    president. You just said so."
  36                          AIRPORT

    At an adjoining table, a woman said loudly, "Geez! Lookit the time!"
    Instinctively, Mel did. It was three quarters of an hour since he had
    left Danny Farrow at the Snow Control Desk. Getting up from the table,
    he told Tanya, "Don't go away. I have to make a call."
    There was a telephone at the cashier's counter, and Met dialed one of the
    Snow Desk unlisted numbers. Danny Farrow's voice said, "Hold it," then,
    a few moments later, returned on the line.
    "I was going to call you," Danny said. "I just had a report on that stuck
    707 of A6reo-Mexican."
   "Go ahead."
   "You knew Mexican had asked TWA for help?"
   "Yes. 11

    "Well, they've got trucks, cranes, God knows what out there now. The
    runway and taxiway are blocked off completely, but they stiff haven't
    shifted the damn airplane. The latest word is that TWA has sent for Joe
    Patroni."
    Met acknowledged, "I'm glad to hear it, though I wish they'd done it
    sooner."
    Joe Patroni was airport maintenance chief for TWA, and a born
    trouble-shooter. He was also a down-toearth, dynamic character and a
    close crony of Mel's.
    "Apparently they tried to get Patroni right away," Danny said- "But he
    was at home and the people here had trouble reaching him. Seems there's
    a lot of phone lines down from the storm."
   "But he knows now. You're sure of that?"
   "TWA's sure. They say he's on his way."
    Mel calculated. He knew that Joe Patroni lived at Glen Ellyn, some
    twenty-five miles from the airport, and even with ideal driving
    conditions the journey took forty minutes. Tonight, with snowbound roads
    and crawling traffic, the airline maintenance chief would be lucky to
    make it in twice that time.
    "If anyone can get that airplane moved tonight," Mel conceded, "it'll be
    Joe. But meanwhile I don't want anybody sitting on his hands until he
    gets here. Make it clear to everyone that we need runway three zero
    usable,
                        AIRPORT                          37

  and urgently." As well as the operational need, he remembered unhappily
  that flights must still be taking off over Meadowood. He wondered if the
  community meeting, which the tower chief had told him about, was yet in
  session.
    "I've been telling 'em," Danny confirmed. "I'll do it some more. Oh, a
    bit of good news-we found that United food truck."
   "The driver okay?"
    "He was unconscious under the snow. Motor still running, and there was
    carbon monoxide, the way we figured. But they got an inhalator on him,
    and he'll be all right."
    "Good! I'm going out on the field now to do some checking for myself.
    I'll radio you from there."
    "Wrap up well," Danny said. "I hear it's a lousy night."
    Tanya was still at the table when Mel returned, though preparing to go.
   "Hold on," he said, "I'm coming, too."
    She motioned to his untouched sandwich. "How about dinner? If that's what
    it was."
    "This will do for now." He bolted a mouthful, washed it down hastily with
    coffee, and picked up his topcoat. "Anyway, I'm having dinner downtown."
    As Mel paid their check, two Trans America ticket agents entered the
    coffee shop. One was the supervising agent whom Mel had spoken to
    earlier. Observing Tanya, he came across.
    "Excuse me, Mr. Bakersfeld ... Mrs. Livingston, the D.T.M.'s looking for
    you. He has another problem."
    Mel pocketed his change from the cashier. "Let me guess. Somebody else
    threw a timetable."
    "No, sir." The agent grinned. "I reckon if there's another thrown thiff
    evening it'll be by me. This one's a stowaway--on Flight 80 from Los
    Angeles."
    "Is that all?" Tanya appeared surprised. Aerial stowaways-though all
    airlines had them-were seldom a cause of great concern.
    "The way I hear it," the agent said, "this one's a dilly. There's been
    a radio message from the captain,
  38                          AIRPORT

  and a security guard has gone to the gate to meet the flight. Anyway, Mrs.
  Livingston, whatever the trouble is, they're calling for you." With a
  friendly nod, he went off to rejoin his companion.
    Mel walked with Tanya from the coffee shop into the central lobby. They
    stopped at the elevator which would take Mel to the basement garage where
    his car was parked.
    "Drive carefully out there," she cautioned. "Don't get in the way of any
    airplanes."
    "If I do, I'm sure you'll hear about it." He shrugged into the heavy
    topcoat. "Your stowaway sounds interesting. I'll try to drop by before I
    leave, to find out what it's all about." He hesitated, then added, "It'll
    give me a reason to see you again tonight."
    They were close together. As one, each reached out and their hands touched.
    Tanya said softly, "Who needs a reason?"
    In the elevator, going down, he could still feel the warm smoothness of her
    flesh, and hear her voice.

                           4

  Joe Patroni--as Mel Bakersfeld had learned-was on his way to the airport
  from his home at Glen Ellyn. The cocky, stocky Italian-American, who was
  airport maintenance chief for TWA, had left his suburban, ranch-style
  bungalow by automobile some twenty minutes earlier. The going was
  exceedingly slow, as Mel had guessed it would be.
    At the moment, Joe Patroni's Buick Wildcat was halted in a traffic tie-up.
    Behind and ahead, as far as visibility extended, were other vehicles, also
    stopped. While waiting, his actions illuminated by the taillights of the
    car in front, Patroni lit a fresh cigar.
                        AIRPORT                          39

    Legends had grown up around Joe Patroni; some professional, others
    personal.
    He had begun his working life as a grease monkey in a garage. Soon after,
    he won the garage from his employer in a dice game, so that at the end of
    the game they reversed roles. As a result, yotin- Joe became heir to
    various bad debts, including one which made him owner of an ancient,
    decrepit Waco biplanc. With a mixture of resourcefulness and sheer
    mechanical ability, he repaired the airplane, then flew it successfully-
    without benefit of flying lessons, which he could not afford.
    The airplane and its mechanical functioning absorbed Joe Patroni
    completely-so much so, that he enticed his former employer into another
    dice game and allowed him to win the garage back. Joe thereupon quit the
    garage and took a job as an airline mechanic. He studied at night school,
    became a lead mechanic, then a foreman with a reputation as a top-notch
    troubleshooter. His crew could change an engine faster than an airplane
    manufacturer said it could be done; and with absolute reliability. After a
    while, whenever there was pressure, or a difficult repair job, the word
    went out: get Joe Patroni.
    A contributing reason for his success was that he never wasted time on
    diplomacy. Instead, he went directly to the point, both with people and
    airplanes. He also had a total disregard for rank, and was equally
    forthright with everyone, including the airline's senior executives,
    On one occasion, still talked about when airline men reminisced, Joe
    Patroni walked off his job and, without word to anyone, or prior
    consultation, rode an airplane to New York. He carried a package with him.
    On arrival, he went by bus and subway to the airline's Olympian
    headquarters in midtown Manhattan where, without announcement or preamble,
    he strode into the president's office. Opening the package, he deposited an
    ofly, disassembled carburetor on the immaculate presidential desk.
   The president, who had never heard of Joe Patroni,
  40                           AIRPORT

  and whom no one ever got to see without prior appointment, was apoplectic
  until Joe told him, "If you want to lose some airplanes in fli ght, throw me
  out of here. If you don't, sit down and listen."
    The president sat down-while Joe Patroni lighted a cigar-and listened.
    Afterward, he called in his engineering vice-president who, later still,
    ordered a mechanical modification affecting carburetor icing in flight,
    which Patroni had been urging-unsuccessfully at lower level-for months.
    Later, Patroni received official commendation, and the incident became one
    more to add to an already growing fund of Patroni stories. Soon after, Joe
    was promoted to senior supervisor, and a few years later was given the
    important post of maintenance chief at Lincoln International.
    On a personal level, another report said that Joe Patroni made love to his
    wife, Marie, most nights, the way other men enjoyed a pre-dinner drink.
    This was true. In fact, he had been thus engaged when the telephone mes-
    sa,~e came from the airport about the mired A6reo-Mexican jet which TWA had
    been asked to help extricate.
    The same rumor continued: Patroni made love the same way he did everything
    else-with a long, thin cigar stuck jauntily in the side of his mouth. This
    was untrue, at least nowadays. Marie, having coped with several pillow
    fires during their early years of marriagedrawing on her training as a TWA
    air hostess to extinguish them-had emphatically forbidden any more cigars
    in hed. Joe complied with the edict because he loved his wife. He had
    reason to. When he married her, she was probably the most popular and
    beautiful hostess in the entire airline system, and twelve years and three
    children later she could still hold her own with most successors. There
    were some who wondered aloud why Marie-who had been pursued ardently by
    captains and first officers-had ever chosen Joe Patroni at all. But Joe,
    even as a young maintenance foreman, which he was when they met, had a way
    with him, and had kept Marie satisfied-in all important ways-ever since.
   Another thing about Joe Patroni was that he never
                        AIRPORT                          41

  panicked in emergencies. Instead, he quickly assessed each situation,
  deciding what priority the emergency rated, and whether or not he should
  complete other tasks before coping with it. In the case of the mired 707,
  instinct told him it was a moderate- to-acute crisis, which meant there was
  time to finish what he was doing, or have dinner, but not both. Accordingly,
  he abandoned dinner. Soon after, Marie raced to the kitchen in her robe and
  threw sandwiches together for Joe to eat during his twenty-five-mfle drive
  to the airport. He nibbled on a sandwich now.
    Being recalled to the airport after performing a full day's work was not a
    new experience, but tonight the weather was worse than any other occasion
    he remembered. Accumulated effects of the three-day storm were everywhere,
    making driving exacting and hazardous. Huge snowpiles lined the streets
    and, in the darkness, more snow was falling. Both on and off freeways,
    traffic was moving at a crawl, or not at all. Even with mudsnow tires,
    which Patroni's Buick Wildcat had, traction was poor. Windshield wipers and
    defrosters were barely coping with gusting snow outside and steam within,
    while headlight beams iLluminated only short distances ahead. Stalled
    vehicles, some abandoned by their drivers, turned roads into obstacle
    courses. It was obvious that only those with good reason would be out on
    such a night.
    Patroni checked his watch. Both his own car and the one immediately ahead
    had been stationary for several minutes. Farther ahead stUl, he could make
    out others, also stopped, and to his right was another halted lane of
    traffic. Moreover, for some time, no vehicles had come from the opposite
    direction, so obviously something had happened to obstruct all four lanes.
    If nothing more occurred in the next five minutes, he decided, he would get
    out of the car to investigate, though observing the slush, drifts, and
    still falling snow outside, he hoped he would not have to. There would be
    plenty of time to become cold and miserable-as he was undoubtedly going to
    be before the night was out-after arrival at the airport. Meanwhile, he
    turned up the volume of the
  42                           AIRPORT

  car radio, which was tuned to a rock-and-roll station, and pulled at his
  cigar.
    Five minutes went by. Ahead, Joe Patroni could see people getting out of
    cars and walking forward, and he prepared to join them. He had brought
    a fleece-lined parka and pulled it tightly around him, slipping the bood
    over his head. He reached for the heavy-duty electric lantern which he
    always carried. As he opened the car door, wind and snow rushed in. He
    eased out, closing the door quickly.
    He plodded forward while other car doors slammed and voices called, "What
    happened?" Someone shouted, "There's been an accident. It's a real mess."
    As he progressed, flashing lights became visible ahead, and shadows moved
    and separated, becoming a cluster of people. A new voice said, "I'm
    telling you they won't clear that lot in a hurry. We'll all be stuck here
    for hours." A large, darker shadow loomed, partially lighted by
    sputtering red flares. It proved to be a massive tractor-trailer unit on
    its side. The cumbersome eighteenwheeled vehicle was spread across the
    road, blocking all traffic movement. Part of its cargo-apparently cases
    of canned goods-had spewed out, and already a few opportunists were
    braving the snow and collecting cases, then hurrying with them to their
    cars.
    Two state police patrol cars were at the scene. State troopers were
    questioning the truck driver, who appeared unhurt.
    "All I did was touch the goddam brakes," the driver protested loudly.
    "Then she jackknifed, and rolled over like a whore in heat."
    One of the policemen wrote in his notebook, and a woman murmured to a man
    beside her, "Do you think he's putting, that last bit down?"
    Another woman shouted, "Lotta good that'll do." Her voice was shrill
    against the wind. "Whyn't you cops get this thing moved?"
    One of the state troopers walked across. Most of his uniform coat was
    already snow-covered. "If you'll give us a hand to lift, madam, we'd be
    glad to oblige."
                         AIRPORT                          43

    A few people tittered, and the woman muttered, "Smart ass cops."
    A tow truck, amber roof-beacon flashing, approached, moving slowly, on the
    opposite side of the obstruction. The driver was using the now unoccupied
    lanes on what would normally be the wrong side of the road. He stopped and
    got out, shaking his head doubtfully as be saw the size and position of the
    tractortrailer.
    Joe Patroni shoved forward. He puffed on his cigar, which glowed redly in
    the wind, and prodded the state trooper sharply on the shoulder. "Listen,
    son, you'll never move that ria with one tow truck. It'll be like hitching
    a torntit to a brick."
    The policeman turned. "Whatever it's like, mister, there's spilled gasoline
    around here. You'd better get that cigar out."
    Patroni ignored the instruction, as he ignored almost all smoking
    regulations. He waved the cigar toward the over-turned tractor-trailer.
    "What's more, son, you'd be wasting everybody's time, including mine and
    yours, trying to get that hunk of junk right side up tonight. You'll have
    to drag it clear so traffic can move, and to do that you need two more tow
    trucks-one on this side to push, two over there to pull." He began moving
    around, using his electric lantern to inspect the big articulated vehicle
    from various angles. As always, when considering a problem, he was totally
    absorbed. He waved the cigar once more. "The two trucks together'll hitch
    on to three points. They'll pull the cab first, and faster. That'll
    overcome the jackknifing. The other truck

    "Hold it," the state trooper said. He called across to one of the other
    officers. "Hank, there's a guy here sounds like he knows what he's talking
    about."
    Ten minutes later, working with the police officers, Joe Patroni had
    virtually taken charge. Two additional tow trucks, as he had suggested,
    were being summoned by radio. While awaiting their arrival, the driver of
    the first tow truck was attaching chains, under Patroni's direction, to the
    axles of the capsized tractor-trailer. The
  44                          AIRPORT

  situation had already assumed a proficient, get-on-withit pattem--a
  trademark of any proceeding in which the energetic TWA maintenance chief
  became involved.
    Patroni himself had remembered several times, with concern, his reason
    for being out at all tonight, and the fact that by now he was long
    overdue at the airport. But helping to clear the blocked highway, he
    calculated, was the fastest means of getting there. Obviously, his own
    car and others could not move forward until the wrecked tractor-trailer
    had been dragged clear from the center of the road. To go back and try
    an alternate route was equally impossible because traffic behind was
    backed up, with continuous lines of vehicles extending -so the police
    assured him-for miles to the rear.
    He went back to his car to use the radio telephone he had installed at
    his employers' suggestion, and for which they picked up the monthly
    bills. He called the airline's maintenance department at the airport to
    report on his delay, and, in return, was informed of Mel Bakersfeld's
    message about the urgent need for runway three zero to be cleared and
    usable.
    Joe Patroni gave some instructions over the telephone, but was aware that
    the most important thing was to be on the airfield himself as speedily
    as possible.
    When be left the Buick for the second time, snow was still fallina
    heavily. Dodging drifts which had formed around the line of waiting cars,
    he returned to the road block at a jog trot and was relieved to see that
    the first of the two extra tow trucks had arrived.

                           5

  The elevator, which Mel Bakersfeld had taken after leaving Tanya,
  deposited him in the terminal basement. His official airport car-mustard
  yellow, and radioequipped-was in a privileged parking stall close by.
                        AIRPORT                          45

    Mel drove out, meeting the storm where the building exit joined an aircraft
    parking ramp outside. As he left the shelter of the terminal, wind and
    whirling snow slammed savagely against the car's windshield. The wiper
    blades slapped swiftly back and forth, though barely maintaining sufficient
    clear space for forward vision. Through a fractionally opened window, a
    blast of icy air and snow rushed in. Mel closed the window hastily. The
    transition from the terminal's warm snugness to the harshness of the night
    outside was startling.
    Immediately ahead were airplanes parked at gate positions on the ramp.
    Through breaks in the snow, as the wind whipped and eddied around concourse
    buildings, Mel could see into the lighted interiors of several aircraft,
    which had passengers already seated. Obviously, several flights were ready
    to leave. These would be awaiting word from the tower to start engines,
    their continued delay a result of the blockage of runway three zero.
    Farther out on the airfield and runways, he could make out blur-red shapes
    and navigation lights of other airplanes-recent arrivals, with engines
    running. These were in a holding area, which pilots called the penalty box,
    and would move in as gate positions became vacant. Undoubtedly, the same
    thing was happening in the other seven aircraft concourses grouped around
    the terminal.
    The two-way radio in Mel's car, tuned to ground control frequency, crackled
    alive.
    "Ground Control to Eastern seventeen," a controller intoned, "you are
    cleared to runway two five. Change frequency now for your air-ways
    clearance."
   A burst of static. "Eastern seventeen. Roger."
    A stronger voice rasped irritably. "Ground control from Pan Am fifty-four
    on outer taxiway to two five. There's a private Cessna in front-a
    twin-engine tortoise. I'm standinQ on my brakes to keep behind."
    "Pan Arn fifty-four, stand by." The briefest pause, then the controller's
    voice aqain: "Cessna seven three metro froni ~yoiind control. Enter the
    next right intersect;f)n. ~-o',!. i ld lei Pan American pass voii.-
   Unexpectedly, a pleasant woman's voice responded.
  46                          AIRPORT

  "Ground control from Cessna seven three tnetro. I'm turning now. Go ahead,
  Pan Am, you great big bully."
    A chuckle, then, "Thanks, honey. You can fix your lipstick while you wait."
    The controller's voice rebuked. "Tower to all aircraft. Confine your
    messages to official business."
    The controller was edgy, Mel could tell, despite the routine, studied
    calmness. But who wouldn't be tonight, with conditions and traffic the way
    they were? He thought uneasily again about his brother, Keith, involved
    with the unrelenting pressure of west arrival control.
    The talk between tower and aircraft was continuous, with no gaps between
    transmissions. When one exchange ended, Mel snapped his own mike button
    down. "Ground control from mobile one. I'm at gate sixty-five, proceeding
    to runway three zero, site of the stuck 707."
    He listened while the controller gave taxing instructions to two other
    flights which had just landed. Then: "Tower to mobile one. Roger, follow
    the Air Canada DC-9 pulling out of the gate ahead of you. Hold short of
    runway two one."
    Mel acknowledged. He could see the Air Canada flight, at this moment easing
    out from a terminal gate, its high graceful tail an angular silhouette.
    While still in the ramp area, he drove out toward the airfield carefully,
    watching for ramp lice-as airport men called the proliferation of vehicles
    which surrounded airplanes on the ground. As well as the usual ones,
    tronight there were several cherry pickers-trucks with high, maneuverable
    platforms at the end of steel, articulated arms. On the platforms, service
    crews were reaching out to clear snow from aircraft wings, and spraying
    glycol to retard ice formation. The men themselves were snow-covered in
    their exposed position.
    Mel braked hastily, avoiding a speeding honey wagon, on its way from the
    ramp area to disgorge its malodorous four-hundred gallon load of contents
    pumped out from aircraft toilets. The load would eject into a shredding
    machine in a special building which other air-port employees avoided, and
    then be pumped
                        AIRPORT                          47

  to city sewers. Most times the procedure worked efficiently, except when
  passengers reported losses of items-dentures, purses, wallets, even
  shoes-dropped accidentally in aircraft toilets. It happened once or twice
  a day. Then loads had to be sifted, while everyone hoped the missing item
  could be located quickly.
    Even without incidents, Mel realized, this would be a busy night for
    sanitary crews. Airport managements knew from experience that demands on
    toilet facilities, on the ground and in the air, increased as weather
    worsened. Mel wondered how many people were aware that airport sanitary
    supervisors received hourly weather forecasts and made their plans-for
    extra cleaning and increased supplies-accordingly.
    The Air Canada jet he was to follow had cleared the terminal and was
    increasing taxi speed. Mel accelerated to keep up. It was reassuring-with
    windshield wipers barely coping with the snow-to have the DC-9's tail-
    light as a reference point ahead. Through the rear mirror he could make
    out the shape of another, larger jet now following. On radio, the ground
    controller cautioned, "Air France four-o-four, there is an airport ground
    vehicle between you and Air Canada."
    It took a quarter of an hour to reach the intersection where runway three
    zero was blocked by the A6reoMexican 707. Before then, Mel had separated
    from the stream of taxiing aircraft which were destined for takeoff on
    the two other active runways.
    He stopped the car and got out. In the dark and loneliness out here, the
    storm seemed even more wintry and violent than nearer the terminal. The
    wind howled across the deserted runway. If wolves appeared tonight, Mel
    thought, it would not be surprising.
    A shadowy figure hailed him. "Is that Mr. Patroni?"
    "No, it isn't." Mel found that he, too, bad to shout to make himself
    heard above the wind. "But Joe Patroni's on the wav."
    The otf,(-r man came closer. He was huddled into a parka, his face blue
    with cold. "When he gets here, we'll be glad to see him. Though I'm
    damned if I know what
  48                          AIRPORT

  Patroni'll do. We've tried about everything to get this bastard out." He
  gestured to the airplane looming, shadowy, behind them. "She's stuck, but
  good."
   Mel identified himself, then asked, "Who are you?"
    "Ingram, sir. A6reo-Mexican maintenance foreman. Right now, I wish I bad
    some other job."
    As the two men talked, they moved nearer to the stalled Boeing 707,
    instinctively seeking shelter under the wings and fuselage, high above
    them. Under the big jet's belly, a red hazard light winked rhythmically,
    In its reflection Mel could see the mud beneath snow in which the
    aircraft's wheels were deeply mired. On the runway and adjoining taxiway,
    clustered like anxious relatives, were a profusion of trucks and service
    vehicles, including a fuel tanker, baggage tenders, a post office van,
    two crew buses, and a roaring,power cart.
    Mel pulled the collar of his topcoat tightly around him. "We need this
    runway urgently-tonight. What have you done so far?"
    In the past two hours, Ingram reported, old-fashioned boarding ramps had
    been trundled from the terminal, manhandled to the aircraft, and
    passengers guided down them. It bad been a slow, tricky job because steps
    were icing as fast as they were cleared. An elderly woman had been
    carried down by two mechanics. Babies were passed from hand to hand in
    blankets. Now, all passengers were gone-in buses, along with the
    stewardesses and the second officer. The captain and first officer re-
    mained.
    "Since the passengers left-have you tried to get the airplane moving?"
    The foreman nodded affirmatively. "Had the engines running twice. The
    captain's put on all the power he dare. But she won't come free. Just
    seems to dig herself in deeper."
   "What's happening now?"
    "We're taking off more weight, hoping that'll. help." Most of the fuel,
    Ingram added, had been sucked out by tankers-a heavy load since tanks
    were full for takeoff. Bag age and freight compartments in the belly had
    been
    ,g emptied. A post office truck was retrieving mailbags.
                        AIRPORT                          49

    Mel nodded. The mail, he knew, would have come off anyway. The airport post
    office kept a minute-to-minute watch on airline schedules. They knew
    exactly where their mailbavs were and, if delays occurred, postal employees
    quickly switched mail from one airline to another. Mail from the stranded
    jet, in fact, would fare better than passengers. In half an hour at most,
    it would be on its way by another flight, if necessary on an alternate
    route.
   Mel asked, "Have you all the help you need?"
    "Yes. sir-for all we can do now. I've got most of our crew from
    A6reo-Mexican here-a dozen men. Right now, half of 'em are thawing out in
    one of the buses. Patroni may want more people, depending on what his ideas
    are." Ingram turned, surveying the silent aircraft gloomily. "But if you
    ask me, it's going to be a long job. and we'll need heavy cranes, jacks,
    and maybe pneumatic bags to lift the wings. For most of those, we'd have to
    wait until daylight. The whole thing could take most of tomorrow."
    Mel said sharply, "It can't take most of tomorrow, or even tonight. This
    runway has to be cleared . . ." He stopped abruptly, shivering with a
    suddenness which startled him. The intensity was unexpected, almost eerie.
    Mel shivered again. What was it? He assured himself: the weather-the
    fierce, harsh wind across the airport, driving the whirling snow. Yet,
    strangely, since leaving the car until this moment, his body had adjusted
    to the cold.
    From the opposite side of the airfield, above the wind, he could hear the
    thunder of jet m(jines. They rose to a crescendo, then diminished as a
    flight took off. Another followed, and another. Over there, all was well.
   And here?
    It was true, was-n't it?-for the briefest instant he had had a premonition.
    A hint, no more; an intuition; the smell of greater trouble brewing. He
    should ignore it, of course; impulse, premonitions, had no place in prag-
    matic manaQement. Except that once, long aqo, he had had the selfsame
    feeling-a conviction of events accumulating, and progressing to some
    disastrous, unenvis-
      50                          AIRPORT

  aged end. Met remembered the end, which he had been unable to avert ...
  entirely.
    He glanced at the 707 again. It was snow-covered now, its outline
    blurring. Commonsense told him: apart from the runway blockage and the
    inconvenience of takeoffs over Meadowood, the situation was harmless.
    There had been a mishap, with no injuries, no apparent damage. Not[iing
    more.
    "Let's go to my car," he told the A6reo-Mexican foreman. "We'll get on
    the radio and find out what's happening."
    On the way, he reminded himself that Cindy would shortly be waiting
    impatiently downtown.
    Mel had left the car heater turned on, and inside the car it was
    comfortingly warm. Ingram grunted appreciatively. He loosened his coat
    and bent forward to hold his hands in the stream of warm air.
    Mel switched the radio to the frequency of airport maintenance.
    "Mobile one to Snow Desk. Danny, I'm at the blocked intersection of three
    zero. Call TWA maintenance and check on Joe Patroni. Where is he? When
    coming? Over."
    Danny Farrow's voice crisped back through the speaker on the dash. "Snow
    Desk to mobile one. Wilco. And, Mel, your wife called."
    Mel pressed the mike button. "Did she leave a number?"
   "Affirmative."
    "Mobile one to Snow Desk. Please call her, Danny. Tell her I'm sorry,
    I'll be a little late. But check on Patroni first."
   "Understood. Stand by." The radio went silent.
    Mel reached inside his topcoat for a pack of Marlboros. He offered them
    to Ingram.
   "Thanks."
    They lit up, watching the windshield wipers slap back and forth.
    Ingram nodded toward the lighted cockpit of the A6reo-Mexican jet. "Up
    there, that son-of-a-bitch of a
                        AIRPORT                          51

  captain is probably crying into his sombrero. Next time, he'll watch blue
  taxi lights like they was altar candles."
    Mel asked, "Are your ground crews Mexicans or American?"
    "We're all American. Only meatheads like us would work in this lousy
    weather. Know where that flight was going?"
   Mel shook his head.
    "Acapulco. Before this happened, I'd have given up six months' screwing to
    be on it." The foreman chuckled. "Can you imagine, though-getting aboard,
    and your ass all settled, then having to get off in th.is. You should have
    heard the passengers cursing, especially the women. I learned some new
    words tonight."
   The radio came alive again.
    "Snow Desk to mobile one," Danny Farrow said. "I talked with TWA about Joe
    Patroni. They've heard from him, but he's held up in traffic. He'll be
    another hour, at least. He sent a message. You read me so far?"
   "We read," Mel said. "Let's have the message."
    "Patroni warns not to get the airplane deeper in the mud than it is
    already. Says it can happen easily. So, unless the A6reo-Mexican crowd are
    real sure of what they're doing, they should hold off any more tries until
    Joe gets there."
    Mel glanced sideways at Ingram. "How does the A6reo-Mexican crowd feel
    about that?"
    The foreman nodded. "Patroni can have all the tries he wants. We'll wait."
   Danny Farrow said, "Did you get that? Is it clear?"
   Mel thumbed the mike button. "It's clear."
    "Okay. There's more. TWA is rounding up some extra ground crew to help.
    And, Mel, your wife phoned again. I gave her your message." Mel sensed
    Danny hesitating, aware that others whose radios were on the airport
    maintenance frequency were listening, too.
   Mel said, "She wasn't happy?"
    "I guess not." There was a second's silence. "You'd better get to a phone
    when you can."
   It was a safe bet, Mel thought, that Cindy had been
  52                          AIRPORT

  more than usually snippy with Danny, but, loyally, he wasn't saying so.
    As for the A6reo-Mexican 707, obviously there was nothing more to be done
    until Joe Patroni arrived. Patroni's advice about not getting the
    aircraft more deeply mired made good sense.
    Ingram was pulling on heavy mitts and refastening his coat. "Thanks for
    the warm-up." He went out, into the wind and snow, slamming the door
    quickly. A few moments later, Mel could see him plodding through deep
    drifts toward the assembled vehicles on the taxiway.
    On radio, the Snow Desk was speaking to Maintenance Snow Center. Mel
    waited until the exchange finished, then held the transmit button down.
    "This is mobile one, Danny. I'm going to the Conga Line."
    He eased the car forward, picking his way carefully in the blowing snow
    and darkness, with only widely spaced runway lights to guide him.
    The Conga Line, both spearhead and prime mover of the airport
    snow-fighting system, was-at the moment -on runway one seven, left. In
    a few minutes, Mel thought grin-fly, he would find out for himself if
    there was truth, or merely malice, in the critical report of Captain
    Demerest's Airlines Snow Committee.

                           6

  The subject of Mel's thoughts-Captain Vernon Demerest of Trans
  America-was, at the moment, some three miles from the airport. He was
  driving his Mercedes 230 SL Roadster and, compared with the journey he had
  made to the airport earlier from home, was having little trouble
  negotiating local streets, which had been recently plowed. Snow was still
  falling heavily, abetted by a strong wind, but the fresh covering on the
                        AIRPORT                          53

  ground was not yet deep enough to make conditions difficult.
    Demerest's destination was a group of three-story apartment blocks, close
    to the airport, known colloquially to [lying crews as Stewardess Row. It
    was here that many of the stewardesses based at Lincoln International-from
    all airlines-maintained apartments. Each apartment was usually shared by
    two or three girls, and the initiated also had a name for the individual
    m6nages. They were known as stewardess nests.
    The nests were often the scene of lively, off-duty parties, and sometimes
    headquarters for the amorous affairs which occurred, with predictable
    regularity, between stewardesses and male flying crews.
    Taken as a whole, the stewardess nests were neither more nor less
    freewheeling than other apartments occupied by single girls elsewhere. The
    difference was that most of what transpired in the way of swinging, amoral
    activities, involved airline personnel.
    There was good reason for this. Both the stewardesses and male crew members
    whom they met-captains, and first and second officers-were, without ex-
    ception, high-caliber people. All had reached their jobs, which many others
    coveted, through a tough, exacting process of elimination in which those
    less talented were totally eclipsed. The comparative few who remained were
    the brightest and best. The result was a broth of sharp, enlightened
    personalities with a zest for life and the perceptiveness to appreciate one
    another.
    Vernon Demerest, in his time, had appreciated many stewardesses, as they
    had appreciated him. He had, in fact, had a succession of affairs with
    beautiful and intelligent young women whom a monarch or a male movie idol
    might well have desired without attaining. The stewardesses whom Dernerest
    and fellow pilots knew, and regularly made love to, were neither whores nor
    easy lays. They were, however, alive, responsive, and sexually endowed
    girls, who valued quality, and took it when so obviously and conveniently
    close to hand.
    One who had taken it-so to speak-from Vernon Demerest, and seemed inclined
    to continue to, was a
  54                          AIRPORT

  vivacious, attractive, English-bom brunette, Gwen Meighen. She was a
  farmer's daughter who had left home to come to the United States ten years
  earlier at the age of eighteen. Before joining Trans America she was
  briefly a fashion model in Chicago. Perhaps because of her varied
  background, she combined an uninhibited sexuality in bed with elegance and
  style when out of it.
    It was to Gwen Meighen's apartment that Vernon Demerest was headed now.
    Later tonight, the two of them would leave for Rome on Trans America
    Flight Two. On the flight deck, Captain Demerest would command. In the
    passenger cabins, aft, Gwen Meighen would be senior stewardess. At the
    Rome end of the journey, there would be a three-day layover for the crew,
    while another crew-already in Italy for its own layover-would fly the
    airplane back to Lincoln International.
    The word "layover" had long ago been adopted officially by airlines and
    was used deadpan. Possibly, whoever coined the term had a sense of humor;
    in any case, flying crews frequently gave it a practical application as
    well as its official one. Demerest and Gwen Meighen were planning a
    personal definition now. On arrival in Rome, they would leave immediately
    for Naples for a forty-eight-hour "layover" together. It was a halcyon,
    idyllic prospect, and Vernon Dernerest smiled appreciatively at the
    thought of it. He was nearing Stewardess Row, and as be reminded himself
    of how well other things had gone this evening, his smile broadened.
    He had arrived at the airport early, after leaving Sarah, his wife,
    who-placidly as usual-had wished him a pleasant trip. In an earlier age,
    Sarah might have busied herself with needlepoint or knitting during her
    liege's absence. As it was, he knew that as soon as he had left, she
    would become immersed in her curling club, bridge, and amateur oil
    painting which were the mainstays of her life.
    Sarah Demerest's placidity, and her dullness which naturally went with
    it, were qualities her husband had come to accept and, in a perverse way,
    valued. Between
                        AIRPORT                           55

  flying trips and affairs with more interesting women, he thought of his
  sojourns at home, and sometimes spoke of them to intimates, as "going into
  the hangar for a stand down." His marriage had another 6onvenience. While it
  existed, the women he made love to could become as emotional and demanding
  as they liked, but he could never be expected to meet the ultimate demand of
  matrimony. In this way, he had a perpetual protection against his own hasty
  action in the beat of passion. As to sexual intimacy with Sarah, he still
  obliged her occasionally, as one would play "throw the ball" with an old
  dog. Sarah responded dutifully, with conventional body heavings and
  quickened breath, though he suspected both were more from rote than passion,
  and that if they quit copulation entirely she would not be overly concerned.
  He was also sure that Sarah suspected his philandering, if not in fact, then
  at least by instinct. But, characteristically, she would prefer not to know,
  an arrangement in which Vernon Dernerest was happy to cooperate.
    Another thinj which bad pleased him this evening was the Airlines Snow
    Committee report in which he had delivered a verbal kick in the crotch,
    aimed at his stuffed-shirt brother-in-law, Mel Bakersfeld.
    The critical report had been solely Demerest's idea. The other two airline
    representatives on the committee had at first taken the view that the
    airport management was doing its best under exceptional conditions. Captain
    Dernerest argued otherwise. The others had finally gone along with him and
    agreed that Dernerest would personally write the report, which he made as
    scathing as he could. He had not bothered about accuracy or otherwise of
    the indictment; after all, with so much snow around, who could be sure of
    anything? He had, however, made certain that the widely circulated report
    would cause a maximum of embarrassment and irritation to Mel Bakersfeld.
    Copies were now being Xeroxed and would be sent to regional vice-presidents
    of all airlines, as well as airline headquarters, in New York and
    elsewhere. Knowing how everyone enjoyed finding a scapegoat for
  56                          AIRPORT

  operational delays, Captain Dernerest was confident that telephones and
  teletypes would be busy after its receipt.
    A revenge, Vernon Dernerest thought pleasurablysmall but satisfying-had
    been exacted. Now, perhaps, his limping, quarter-cripple brother-in-law
    would think twice before antagonizing Captain Demerest and the Air Line
    Pilots Association, as Mel Bakersfeld had presumed to do-in public-two
    weeks ago.
    Captain Demerest swung the Mercedes into an apartment building parking
    lot. He stopped the car smoothly and got out. He was a little early, he
    noticed-a quarter of an hour before the time he had said he would collect
    Gwen and drive her to the airport. He decided to go up, anyway.
    As he entered the building, using the passkey Gwen had given him, he
    hummed softly to himself, then smiled, realizing the tune was 0 Sole Mio.
    Well, why not? It was appropriate. Naples . . . a warm night instead of
    snow, the view above the bay in starlight, soft music from mandolins,
    Chianti with dinner, and Gwen Meighen beside him .... all were less than
    twenty-four hours away. Yes, indeed!-O Sole Mio. He continued humming it.
    In the elevator going up, he remembered another good thing. The flight
    to Rome would be an easy one.
    Tonight, though Captain Demerest was in command of Flight Two-The Golden
    Argosy-he would do little of the work which the flight entailed. The
    reason was that he was flying as a line check captain- Another
    four-striper captain-Anson Harris, almost as senior as Demerest
    himself-had been assigned to the flight and would occupy the command
    pilot's left seat. Dernerest would use the right seat-normally the first
    officer's position-from where he would observe and report on Captain
    Harris's performance.
    The check flight arrangement had come up because Captain Harris had
    elected to transfer from Trans America domestic operations to
    international. However, before flying as a futl-fledged international
    captain, he was required to make two flights over an overseas route
                        AIRPORT                          57

  with a regular line captain who also held instructor's qualifications.
  Vernon Dernerest did.
    After Captain Harris's two flights, of which tonight's would be the
    second, he would be given a final check by a senior supervisory captain
    before being accepted for international command.
    Such checks-as well as regular six-monthly check flights, which all
    pilots of all airlines were required to undergo-entailed an aerial
    scrutiny of ability and flying habits. The checks took place on ordinary
    scheduled flights, and the only indication a passenger might have that
    one was in progress would be the presence of two four-striper captains
    on the flight deck up front.
    Despite the fact that captains checked each other, the tests, both
    regular and special, were usually serious, exacting sessions. The pilots
    wanted them that way. Too much was at stake-public safety and high
    professional standards-for any mutual back-scratching, or for weaknesses
    to be overlooked. A captain being checked was aware that he must measure
    up to required standards in aH respects. Failure to do so would mean an
    automatic adverse report which, if serious enough, could lead to an even
    tougher session with the airline's chief pilot, with the testee's job in
    jeopardy.
    Yet, while performance standards were not relaxed, senior captains
    undergoing flight checks were treated by their colleagues with meticulous
    courtesy. Except by Vernon Demerest.
    Dernerest treated any pilot he was assigned to test, junior or senior to
    himself, in precisely the same waylike an errant schoolboy summoned to
    the headmaster's presence. Moreover, in the headmaster's role, Dernerest
    was officious, arrogant, condescending, and tough. He made no secret of
    his conviction that no one else's ability as a pilot was superior to his
    own. Colleagues who received this brand of treatment raged inwardly, but
    had no choice but to sit and take it. Subsequently they vowed to one
    another that when Demerest's own time came they would give him the
    meanest, toughest check ride he had ever had. They invariably did, with
    a
  58                           AIRPORT

  single consistent result-Vernon Demerest turned in a flawless performance
  which could not be faulted.
    This afternoon, characteristically, Dernerest prefaced his check session
    by telephoning Captain Anson Harris at home. "It'll be a bad night for
    driving," Dernerest said without preamble. "I like my crew to be
    punctual, so I suggest you allow plenty of time to get to the airport."
    Anson Harris, who in twenty-two unblemished years with Trans America had
    never been late for a single flight, was so outraged, he almost choked.
    Fortunately, before Harris could get any words out, Captain Demcrest hung
    up.
    Still fuming, but to make absolutely sure that Derncrest would not catch
    him out, Captain Harris had arrived at the airport almost three hours
    ahead of flight time instead of the usual one hour. Captain Demerest,
    fresh from his stint with the Airlines Snow Committee, bad encountered
    Harris in the Cloud Captain's Coffee Shop. Demerest was wearing a sports
    jacket and slacks; he kept a spare uniform in his airport locker and
    planned to change into it later. Captain Harris, a graying, grizzled
    veteran whom many younger pilots addressed as "sir," was in Trans America
    uniform.
    "Hi, Anson." Vernon Demerest dropped into an adjoining seat at the
    counter. "I see you took my good advice."
    Captain Harris's grip on his coffee cup tightened slightly, but all he
    said was, "Good evening, Vern."
    "We'll start the pre-flight briefing twenty minutes earlier than usual,"
    Demerest said. "I want to check your flight manuals."
    Thank God, Harris thought, his wife had gone through his manuals only
    yesterday, inserting the very latest amendments. But he bad better check
    his mail slot in the dispatch office. This bastard was likely to fault
    him for not making an amendment published only this afternoon. To give
    his hands-which were itchingsomething to do, Captain Harris filled and
    lit his pipe.
    He was aware of Vernon Demerest looking at him critically.
                        AIRPORT                           59

   "You're not wearing a regulation shirt."
    For a moment, Captain Harris could not believe his colleague was serious.
    Then, as he realized he was, Harris's face suffused a deep plum red.
    Regulation shirts were an irritant to Trans America pilots, as they were
    to pilots of other airlines. Obtainable through company sources, the
    official shirts cost nine dollars each, and were often ill fitting, their
    material of dubious quality. Though contrary to regulations, a much
    better shirt could be purchased independently for several dollars less,
    with the difference in appearance scarcely noticeable. Most pilots bought
    the tmofficial shirts and wore them. Vernon Demerest did too. On several
    occasions Anson Harris had heard Demerest speak disdainfully of the
    company's shirts and point to the superior quality of his own.
    Captain Dernerest motioned to a waitress for coffee, then reassured
    Harris, "It's all right. I won't report on your wearing a non-reg shirt
    here. As long as you change it before you come on my flight."
    Hold on! Anson Harris told himself. Dear God in heaven, give me strength
    not to blow, which is probably what the ornery son-of-a-bitch wants. But
    why? Why?
    All right. All right, he decided; indignity or not, he would change his
    unofficial shirt for a regulation one. He would not give Demerest the
    satisfaction of having a single miniscule check point on which to fault
    him. It would be difficult to get a company shirt tonight. He would
    probably have to borrow one---exchange shirts with some other captain or
    first officer. When he told them why, they would hardly believe him. He
    hardly believed it himself.
    But when Demerest's own check flight came up the next, and all others
    from this moment on ... let him beware. Anson Harris had good friends
    among the supervisory pilots. Let Demerest be wearing a regulation shirt;
    let him hew to regulations in every other trifling way ... or else. Then
    Harris thought glumly: The foxy bastard wil I remember; he'll make sure
    he does.
    "Hey, Anson!" Dernerest seemed amused. "You've bitten off the end of your
    pipe."
  60                          AIRPORT

   And so he had.
    Remembering, Vernon Demerest chuckled. Yes, it would be an easy flight
    tonight-for him.
    His thoughts returned to the present as the apartment block elevator
    stopped at the third floor. He stepped into the carpeted corridor and
    turned to the left familiarly, heading for the apartment which Gwen
    Meighen shared with a stewardess of United Air Lines. The other girl,
    Dernerest knew because Gwen had told him, was away on an overnight
    flight. On the apartment door bell he tapped out their usual signal, his
    initials in Morse ... dit-dit-dit-dah dah-dit-dit . . . then went in,
    using the same key which opened the door below.
    Gwen was in the shower. He could hear the water running. When he went to
    her bedroom door, she called out, "Vernon, is that you?" Even competing
    with the shower, her voice-with its flawless English accent, which he
    liked so much- sounded mellow and exciting. He thought: Small wonder Gwen
    had so much success with passengers. He had seen them appear to melt-the
    men especial ly-when her natural charm was turned toward them.
   He called back, "Yes, boney."
    Her filmy underthings were laid out on the bed-panties, sheer nylons; a
    transparent bra, flesh colored, with a girdle of the same material; a
    French silk, hand-embroidered slip. Gwen's uniform might be standard, but
    beneath it she believed in expensive individuality. His senses quickened;
    he moved his eyes away reluctantly.
    "I'm glad you came early," she called again. "I want to have a talk
    before we leave."
   "Sure, we've time."
   "You can make tea, if you like."
   "Okay.,,
    She had converted him to the English habit of tea at all times of (lay,
    though he had scarcely ever drunk tea at all until knowing Gwen. But now
    he often asked for it at home, a request which puzzled Sarah,
    particularly when he insisted on it being correctly made-the pot warmed
    first, as Gwen had taught him, the water still boiling at the instant it
    touched the tea.
                         AIRPORT                          61

    He went to the tiny kitchen, where he knew his way around, and put a
    kettle of water on the stove. He poured milk into a jug from a carton in
    the refrigerator, then drank some milk himself before putting the carton
    back. He would have preferred a Scotch and soda, but, like most pilots,
    abstained from liquor for twenty-four hours before a flight. Out of habit
    he checked his watch; it showed a few minutes before 8:00 P.m. At this
    moment, he realized, the sleek, long-range Boeing 707 jet which he would
    command on its five-thousand mile flight to Rome, was being readied for
    him at the airport.
    He heard the shower stop. In the silence he began humming once again.
    Happily. 0 Sole Mio.

                            7

  T'he blustering, biting wind across the airfield was as strong as ever,
  and still driving the heavily falling snow before it.
    Inside his car, Mel Bakersfeld shivered. He was heading for runway one
    seven, left, which was being plowed, after leaving runway three zero and
    the stranded A6reo-Mexican jet. Was the shivering due to the cold
    outside, Mel wondered, or to memory, which the scent of trouble a few
    minutes ago, plus the nagging reminder from the old injury of his foot,
    had triggered?
    The injury had happened sixteen years ago off the coast of Korea when Mel
    had been a Navy pilot flying fighter missions from the carrier Essex.
    Through the previous twelve hours (he remembered clearly, even now) he
    had had a presentiment of trouble coming. It wasn't fear-like others, he
    had learned to live with that; rather, a conviction that something
    fateful, possibly final, was moving inexorably toward him. Next day, in
    a
  62                           AIRPORT

  dogfight with a MIG-15, Mel's Navy F9F-5 had been shot down inio the sea.
    He managed a controlled ditching, but though unhurt himself, his left
    foot was trapped by a jammed rudder pedal. With the airplane sinking
    fast-an F9F-5 had the floating characteristics of a brick-Mel used a
    survivalkit hunting knife to slash desperately, wildly, at his foot and
    the pedal. Somehow, underwater, his foot came free. In intense pain,
    half-drowned, he surfaced.
    He had spent the next eight hours in the sea before being picked up,
    unconscious. Later he learned he had severed the ligaments in front of
    his ankle, so that the foot extended from his leg in an almost straight
    line.
    In time, Navy medics repaired the foot, though Mel had never flown-as a
    pilot-since then. But at intervals the pain still returned, reminding him
    that long ago, as on other later occasions, his instinct for trouble had
    been right. He had the same kind of instinct now.
    Handling his car cautiously, being careful to retain his bearinp in the
    darkness and restricted visibility, Mel was nearing runway one seven,
    left. This was the runway which, the tower chief had indicated, Air
    Traffic Control would seek to use when the wind shifted as was forecast
    to happen soon.
    At the moment, on the airfield, two runways were in use: one seven,
    right, and runway two five.
    Lincoln International had five runways altogether. Through the past three
    days and nights they had represented the front line of the battle between
    the airport and the storm.
    The longest and widest of the five was three zero, the runway now
    obstructed by A6reo-Mexican. (With a change of wind and an aircraft
    approaching from the opposite direction, it could also be runway one two.
    The figures indicated compass headings of 300 and 120 degrees.) This
    runway was almost two miles long and as wide as a short city block; an
    airport joke claimed that one end could not be seen from the other
    because of the earth's curvature.
    Each of the other four runways was half a mile or so shorter, and less
    wide.
                        AIRPORT                           63

    Without ceasing, since the storm began, the miles of runways had been
    plowed, vacuumed, brushed, and sanded. The motorized equipment-several
    million dollars' worth of roaring diesels-had stopped only minutes at a
    time, mainly for refueling or relieving crews. It was work which air
    travelers never saw at close hand because no aircraft used a
    fresh-cleared runway until the surface had been inspected and declared
    safe. Standards were exacting. Half an inch of slush or three inches of
    powdery snow were maximums allowable for jets. More than that would be
    sucked into engines and endanger operation.
    It was a pity, Me] Bakersfeld reflected, that runway snow teams were not
    more on public view. The sight was spectacular and stirring. Even now,
    in storm and darkness, approaching the massed equipment from the rear,
    the effect was impressive. Giant columns of snow cascaded to the right
    in arcs of a hundred and fifty feet. The arcs were framed in vehicle
    searchlights, and shimmered from the added color of some twenty revolving
    beacons-one on the roof of each vehicle in the group.
   Airport men called the group a Conga Line.
    It had a head, a tail, a body, and an entourage, and it progressed down
    a runway with the precision of choreography.
    A convoy leader was the head. He was a senior foreman from airport
    maintenance and drove an airport car-bright yellow, like all other
    equipment in the Line. The leader set the Conga Line pace, which was
    usually fast. He had two radios and remained permanently in touch with
    the Snow Desk and Air Traffic Control. By a system of lights, he could
    signal drivers followinggreen for "speed up," amber for "maintain pace,"
    red for "slow down," and flashing red for "stop." He was required to
    carry in his head a detailed map of the airport, and must know precisely
    where he was, even on the darkest night, as now.
    Behind the convoy leader, its driver, like an orchestra's first
    violinist, was the number one plow-tonight a mammoth Oshkosh with a big
    main blade ahead, and a wing blade to the side. To the rear of number one
    plow,
  64                          AIRPORT

  and on its right, was number two. The first plow heaved the snow aside;
  the second accepted the load from the first and, adding more, heaved both
  lots farther.
    Then came a Snowbiast, in echelon with the plows, six hundred roaring
    horsepower strong. A Snowblast cost sixty thousand dollars and was the
    Cadillac of snow clearance. With mighty blowers it engulfed the snow
    which both plows piled, and hurled it in a herculean arc beyond the
    runway's edge.
    In a second echelon, farther to the right, were two more plows, a second
    Snowblast.
    After the plows and Snowblasts came the gradersfive in line abreast, with
    plow blades down to clear any mounds the front plows missed. The graders
    towed revolving brushes, each sixteen feet wide and independently diesel
    powered. The brushes scoured the runway surface like monstrous yard
    brooms.
    Next were sanders. Where the eleven vehicles ahead had cleared, three
    hulking FWD trucks, with hoppers holding fourteen cubic yards apiece,
    spread sand out evenly.
    ne sand was special. Elsewhere around the airport, on roadways and areas
    which the public used, salt was added to the sand as a means of melting
    ice. But never for aeronautical areas. Salt corroded metal, shortening
    its life, and airplanes were treated with more respect than cars.
    Last in the Conga Line itself-"tail-end Charlie"was an assistant foreman
    in a second car. His job was to insure that the line stayed intact and
    to chivvy stragglers. He was in radio touch with the convoy leader, often
    out of sight ahead in snow and darkness.
    Finally came the entourage-a standby plow, in case one faltered in the
    Line; a service truck with a detail of mechanics; refueling
    tankers-diesel and gasoline; and -when summoned by radio at appointed
    times-a coffee and doughnut wagon.
    Mel accelerated around the entourage and positioned his car alongside the
    assistant foreman's. His arrival was noticed. He heard the convoy leader
    notified by radio, "Mr. Bakersfeld just joined us."
                         AIRPORT                          65

    The Line was moving fast-close to forty miles an hour instead of its
    usual twenty-five. The leader had probably speeded up because of the
    expected wind shift and the need to have the runway open soon.
    Switching his radio to ATC ground frequency, Mel heard the convoy leader
    call the tower, ". . . on one seven, left, approaching intersection with
    runway two five. Reqtiest clearance over intersection."
   Runway two five was an active runway, now in use.
    "Convoy leader from ground control, hold short of the intersection. We
    have two flights on final approach. You may not, repeat, not, cross
    runway intersectioia. Acknowledge."
    The voice from the tower was apologetic. Up there, they understood the
    difficulty of stopping a rolling Conga Line, and getting it started
    again. But the approaching flights had undoubtedly made a tricky instru-
    ment descent and now were close to landing, one behind the other, Only
    a desperate emergency would justify sending them round again on such a
    night.
    Ahead of Mel, red lights were going on, flashing commandingly as the
    Conga Line slowed and stopped.
    The assistant foreman, a cheerful young Negro, jumped from his car and
    came across to Mel's. As he opened the door, the wind swept in, but could
    only be felt, not heard, above the encompassing roar of idling diesels.
    The assistant put his mouth against Mel's ear. "Say, Mr. B., how's about
    joining the Line? One of the boys'll take care of your car."
    Mel grinned. The pleasure he got, whenever he could spare time, from
    riding and occasionally handling heavy motorized equipment was well known
    around the airport. Why not? he reasoned. He had come out to inspect the
    snow clearance as a result of the adverse report by Vernon Demerest's
    Airlines Snow Committee. Clearly, the report was unjustified, and
    everything was going well. But maybe he should watch a few minutes longer
    from a ringside perch.
    Nodding agreement, he shouted, "Okay, I'll ride the second Snowblast."
   "Yessir!"
  66                           AIRPORT

    The assistant foreman, carrying a hand searchlight and leaning against
    the wind, preceded Mel past the now stationary lines of sand trucks and
    brushes. Mel observed that already fresh snow was starting to cover the
    runway area cleared only moments ago, To the rear, a figure ducked from
    a service truck and hastened to Mel's car.
    "Better hurry, Mr. B. It's only a short stop." The young Negro flashed
    his light at the Snowblast cab, then held it steady, illuminating the
    way, as Mel clambered up. High above, the Snowblast driver opened the cab
    door and held it while Mel eased inside. On the way up, his impaired foot
    pained him sharply, but there was no time to wait. Ahead, the flashing
    red lights had already changed to green, and presumably the two
    approaching aircraft had now landed and were past the intersection. The
    Conga Line must hurry across before the next landing, perhaps only a
    minute or two away. Glancing to the rear, Mel could see the assistant
    foreman sprinting back toward his tail-end-Charlic car.
    The Snowblast was already moving, picking up speed with a deep-throated
    roar. Its driver glanced sideways as Mel slipped into one of the two
    soft, padded seats.
   "Hi, Mr. Bakersfeld."
    "How are you, Will'?" Mel recognized the man, who, when there was no snow
    emergency, was employed by the airport as a payroll clerk.
   "I'm pretty good, sir. Tired some."
    The driver was holding position carefully behind the third and fourth
    plows, their beacon lights just visible. Already the Snowblast's huge
    auger blades were engorging snow, cramming it to the blower. Once more,
    a continuous white stream was arcing outward, clear of the runway.
    Up here was like the bridge of a ship. The driver held his main control
    wheel lightly, like a helmsman. A multitude of dials and levers, glowing
    in the darkness, were arranged for fingertip control. Circular,
    high-speed windshield wipers-as on a ship-provided ports of clear vision
    through encrusted snow.
                        AIRPORT                          67

      guess everyone's tired," Mel said. "AJI I can tell you is that this can't
      last forever."
    He watched the for-ward speed needle climb-from twenty-five to thirty,
    thirty to thirty-five. Swinog in his seat, Mel surveyed outside. From this
    position, at the center of the Conga Line, he could see the lights and
    shapes of the other vehicles. He noted approvingly that the formation was
    exact.
    A few years ago, in a storm like this, an airport would have closed
    completely. Now it didn't, mainly because ground facilities-in this one
    area-had caught up with progress in the air. But of how many areas of
    aviation could the same thing be said? Mel reflected ruefully: very few.
    "Oh, well," the driver said, "it makes a change from
  working an adding machine, and the longer this keeps
  up, the more extra pay there'll be when it's over." He
  touched a lever, tilting the cab forward to inspect the
  auger blades. With another control he adjusted the
  blades, then releveled the cab. "I don't have to do this;
  you know that, Mr. Bakersfeld, I volunteer. But I kinda
  like it out here. It's sort of                           He hesitated. "I
  dunno."
   Mel suggested, "Elemental?"
    "I guess so." The driver laughed. "Maybe I'm snow happy."
    "No, Will, I don't believe you are." Mel swung forward, facing the way the
    Conga Line was moving. It was elemental here. More to the point, amid the
    airfields loneliness there was a feeling of closeness to aviation, the real
    aviation which in its simplest sense was man against the elements. You lost
    that kind of feeling if you stayed too long in terminals and airline office
    buildings; there, the extraneous, non-essential things confused you. Maybe
    all of us in aviation management, Mel thought, should stand at the distant
    end of a runway once in a while, and feel the wind on Our faces. It could
    help to separate detail from fundamentals It might even ventilate our
    brains as well.
    Sometimes in the past Mel had gone out onto the airfield when he needed to
    think, to reason quietly and
  68                           AIRPORT

  alone. He had not expected to tonight, but found himself doing so now . .
  wondering, speculating, as he had so often in recent days, about the
  airport's future and his own.

                            8

  Less than a lustrum ago, the airport was considered among the world's finest
  and most modern. Delegations inspected it admiringly. Civic politicians were
  given to pointing with pride and would huff and puff about "air leadership"
  and "a symbol of the jet age." Nowadays the politicians still huffed and
  puffed, but with less reason. What most failed to realize was that Lincoln
  International, like a surprising number of other major airports, was close
  to becoming a whited sepulcher.
    Mel Bakersfeld pondered the phrase whited sepulcher while riding in
    darkness down runway one seven, left. It was an apt definition, he thought.
    The airport's deficiencies were serious and basic, yet, since they were
    mostly out of public view, only insiders were aware of them.
    Travelers and visitors at Lincoln International saw principally the main
    passenger terminal-a brightly lighted, air-conditioned Taj Mahal. Of
    gleaming glass and chrome, the terminal was impressively spacious, its
    thronged concourses adjoining elegant waiting areas. Opulent service
    facilities ringed the passenger area. Six specialty restaurants ranged from
    a gourmet dining room, with gold-edged china and matching prices, to a
    grab-it-and-run hot dog counter. Bars, cozily darkened or stand-up and neon
    lit, were plentiful as toilets. While waiting for a flight, and without
    ever leaving the terminal, a visitor could shop, rent a room and bed, and
    take a steam bath with massage, have his hair cut, suit
                        AIRPORT                          69

  pressed, shoes shined, or even die and have his burial arranged by Holy
  Ghost Memorial Gardens which maintained a sales office on the lower
  concourse.
    Judged by its terminal alone, the airport was still spectacular. Where its
    deficiencies lay were in operating areas, notably runways and taxiways.
    Few of the eighty thousand passengers who flew in and out each day were
    aware of how inadequate-and therefore hazardous-the runway system had
    become. Even a year previously, runways and taxiways were barely
    sufficient; now, they were dangerously over-taxed. In normally busy
    periods, on two main runways, a takeoff or landing occurred every thirty
    seconds. The Meadowood situation, and the consideration the airport showed
    to community residents, made it necessary, at peak periods, to use an
    alternative runway which bisected one of the other two. As a result,
    aircraft took off and landed on converging courses, and there were moments
    when air traffic controllers held their breath and prayed. Only last week
    Keith Bakersfeld, Mel's brother, had predicted grimly, "Okay, so we stay on
    our toes in the tower, and we cope with the hairy ones, and we haven't
    brought two airplanes together at that intersection yet. But someday
    there'll be a second's inattention or misjudgment, and one of us will. I
    hope to God it isn't me because when it happens it'll be the Grand Canyon
    all over again."
    The intersection Keith had spoken of was the one which the Conga Line had
    just passed over. In the cab of the Snowblast, Mel glanced to the rear. The
    Conga Line was weU clear of the intersection now, and, through a momentary
    gap in the snow, airplane navigation lights were visible on the other
    runway, moving swiftly as a flight took off. Then, incredibly, there were
    more lights only a few yards behind as another flight landed, it seemed at
    the same instant.
    The Snowblast driver had turned his head also-. He whistled. "Those two
    were pretty close."
    Mel nodded. They had been close, exceptionally so, and for an instant his
    flesh had prickled with alarm. Obviously, what had happened was that an air
    traffic
  70                          AIRPORT

  controller, instructing the pilots of both airplanes by radio, had cut
  tolerances exceedingly fine. As usual, the controller's skilled judgment
  had proven right, though only just. The two flights were safe-one now in
  the air, the other on the ground. But it was the need for a multiplicity
  of such hairbreadth judgments which created an unceasing hazard.
    Mel bad pointed out the hazard frequently to the Board of Airport
    Commissioners and to members of City Council, who controlled airport
    financing, As well as immediate construction of more runways and taxi-
    ways, Mel had urged purchase of additional land around the airport for
    long term development. There had been plenty of discussion, and sometimes
    angry argument, as a result. A few Board and Council members saw things
    the way Mel did, but others took a strongly counter view. It was hard to
    convince people that a modern jetport, built in the late 1950s, could so
    quickly have become inadequate to the point of danger. It made no
    difference that the same was true of other centers-New York, San
    Francisco, Chicago, and elsewhere; there were certain things which
    politicians simply did not want to see.
    Mel thought: maybe Keith was right. Perhaps it would take another big
    disaster to arouse public awareness, just as the 1956 Grand Canyon
    disaster had spurred President Eisenhower and the Eighty-fourth Congress
    to revamp the airways. Yet, ironically, there was seldom any difficulty
    in getting money for non-operational improvements. A proposal to
    triple-deck all parking lots had won city approval without dissent. But
    that was something which the public-including those who had votes-could
    see and touch. Runways and taxiways were different. A single new runway
    cost several million dollars and took two years to build, yet few people
    other than pilots, air traffic controllers, and airport management, ever
    knew how good or bad a runway system was.
    But at Lincoln International a showdown was coming soon. It had to. In
    recent weeks, Mel had sensed the signs, and when it happened the choice
    would be clear
                        AIRPORT                          71

  -between advancement on the ground, matching new achievements in the air,
  or impotently drifting backward. In aviation, there was never a status
  quo.
   There was another factor.
    As well as the airport's future, Mel's personal future was at stake.
    Whichever way airport policies veered, so would his own prestige advance
    or lessen in places where it counted most.
    Only a short time ago, Mel Bakersfeld had been a national spokesman for
    ground logistics of aviation, had been touted as the rising young genius
    in aviation management. Then, abruptly, a single, calamitous event had
    wrought a change. Now, four years later, the future was no longer clear,
    and there were doubts and questioning about Mel Bakersfeld, in others'
    minds as well as in his own.
    The event which caused the change was the John F. Kennedy assassination.
    "Here's the end of the runway, Mr. Bakersfeld. You riding back with us,
    or what?" The voice of the Snowblast driver broke in on Mel's reverie.
   "Hm?"
    The man repeated his question. Ahead of them, once more, warning lights
    were flashing on, the Conga Line showing. Half the width of a runway was
    cleared at one time. Now, the Line would reverse itself and go back the
    way it had come, clearing the remaining portion. Allowing for stops and
    starts, it took forty-five minutes to an hour to plow and sand a single
    runway.
   "No," Mel said. "I'll get off here."
    "Right, sir." The driver directed a signal light at the assistant
    foreman's car which promptly swung out of line. A few moments later, as
    Mel clambered down, his own car was waiting. From other plows and trucks,
    crews were descending and hurrying to the coffee wagon.
    Driving back toward the terminal, Mel radioed the Snow Desk, confirming
    to Danny Farrow that runway one seven, left, would be usable shortly.
    Then, switching to ATC ground control, he turned the volume low, the
    subdued, level voices a background to his thoughts.
  72                          AIRPORT

    In the Snowblast cab he had been reminded of the event which, of all
    others he remembered, had struck with greatest impact.
   It had been four years ago.
    He thought, startled, was it really that long ago?four years since the
    gray November afternoon when, dazedly, he had pulled the p.a. microphone
    across his desk toward him-the microphone, rarely used, which overrode
    all others in the terminal-and cutting in on a flight arrival bulletin,
    had announced to concourses which swiftly hushed, the shattering news
    which seconds earlier had flashed from Dallas.
    His eyes, as he spoke then, had been on the photograph on the facing wall
    across his office, the photograph whose inscription read: To my friend
    Mel Bakersfeld, concerned, as I am, with attenuating the surly bonds of
    earth-John F. Kennedy.
    The photograph still remained, as did many memories.
    The memories began, for Mel, with a speech he had made in Washington,
    D.C.
    At the time, as well as airport general manager, he had been president
    of the Airport Operators Councilthe youngest leader, ever, of that small
    but influential body linking major airports of the world. AOC head-
    quarters was in Washington, and Mel flew there frequently.
   His speech was to a national planning congress.
    Aviation, Mel Bakersfeld had pointed out, was the only truly successful
    international undertaking. It transcended ideological boundaries as well
    as the merely geographic. Because it was a means of intermingling diverse
    populations at ever-diminishing cost, it offered the most practical means
    to world understanding yet devised by man.
    Even more significant was aerial commerce. Movement of freight by air,
    already mammoth in extent, was destined to be greater still. The new,
    giant jet airplanes, to be in service by the early 1970s, would be the
    fastest and cheapest cargo carriers in human history; within a decade,
    oceangoing ships might be dry-dock museum
                        AIRPORT                           73

  pieces, pushed out of business in the same way that passenger airplanes
  had clobbered the Queen Mary and Elizabeth. 'rhe effect could be a new,
  worldwide argosy of trade, with prosperity for now impoverished nations.
  Technologically, Mel reminded his audience, the airbome segment of
  aviation offered these things, and more, within the lifetimes of today's
  middle-aged people.
    Yet, be had continued, while airplane designers wove the stuff of dreams
    into fabrics of reality, facilities on the ground remained, for the most
    part, products of shortsightedness or misguided baste. Airports, runway
    systems, terminals, were geared to yesterday, with scant -if
    any-provision for tomorrow; what was lost sight of, or ignored, was the
    juggernaut speed of aviation's progress. Airports were set up piecemeal,
    as individually as city balls, and often with as small imagination.
    Usually, too much was spent on showplace terminals, too little on
    operating areas. Coordinated, high-level planning, either national or
    international, was non-existent.
    At local levels, where politicians were apathetic about problems of
    ground access to airports, the situation was as bad, or worse.
    "We have broken the sound barrier," Mel declared, "but not the ground
    barrier."
    He listed specific areas for study and urged intemational planning-U.S.
    led and presidentially inspiredfor aviation on the ground.
    The speech was accorded a standing ovation and was widely reported. It
    produced approving nods from such diverse sources as The Times of London,
    Pravda, and The Wall Street Journal.
    The day after the speech, Mel was invited to the White House.
    The meeting with the President had gone well. It had been a relaxed,
    good-humored session in the private study on the White House second
    floor. J.F.K., Mel found, shared many of his own ideas.
    Subsequently, there were other sessions, some of them "brain trust"
    affairs involving Kennedy aides,
  74                           AIRPORT

  usually when the Administration was considering aviation matters. After
  several such occasions, with informal aftermaths, Mel was at home in the
  White House, and less surprised than he had been at first to find himself
  there at all. As time went on, he drifted into one of those easygoing
  relationships which J.F.K. encouraged among those with expertise to offer
  him.
    It was a year or so after their first encounter that the President
    sounded Mel out about beading the Federal Aviation Agency. (It was an
    Agency then, an Administration later.) Sometime during the Kennedy second
    term, which everyone assumed would be automatic, the incumbent 17AA
    Administrator, Halaby, would move on to other things. How did Mel feel
    about implementing, from within, some of the measures he had advocated
    from without? Mel had replied that he was very interested indeed. He made
    it clear that if an offer were made, his answer would be yes.
    Word filtered out, not from Mel, but through others who had had it from
    the top. Met was "in"-a duespaid member of the inner circle. His
    prestige, high before, went higher still. The Airport Operators Council
    re-elected him president. His own airport commissioners voted him a
    handsome raise. Barely in his late thirties, he was considered the Childe
    Roland of aviation management.
    Six months later, John F. Kennedy made his fateful Texas journey.
    Like others, Mel was first stunned, then later wept. Only later still,
    did it dawn on him that the assassin's bullets had ricocheted onto the
    lives of others, his own among them. He discovered he was no longer "in"
    in Washington. Najeeb Halaby did, in fact, move on from FAA-to a senior
    vice-presidency of Pan Americanbut Mel did not succeed him. By then,
    power had shifted, influences waned. Mel's name, he later learned, was
    not even on President Johnson's short list for the FAA appointment.
    Mel's second tenure as AOC president ran out uneventfully and another
    bright young man succeeded him. Met's trips to Washington ceased. His
    public ap-
                             AIRPORT                          75

  pearances became limited to local ones, and, in a way, he found the change
  to be a relief. His own responsibilities at Lincoln International had
  already increased as air traffic proliferated beyond most expectations. He
  became intensely occupied with planning, coupled with efforts to persuade
  the Board of Airport Commissioners to his own viewpoints. There was plenty
  to think about, including troubles at home. His days and weeks and months
  were full.
    And yet, there was a sense that time and opportunity had passed him by.
    Others were aware of it. Unless something dramatic occurred, Mel surmised,
    his career might continue, and eventually end, precisely where he was.
    "Tower to mobile one-what is your position?" The radio enjoinder broke
    through Mel's thoughts, returning him abruptly to the present.
    He turned up the radio volume and reported. By now, he was nearing the main
    passenger terminal, its lights becoming clearer, despite the still heavily
    falling snow. The aircraft parking areas, he observed, were as fully
    occupied as when he left, and there was still a line of arriving aircraft
    waiting for gate positions to be vacated.
    "Mobile one, hold until the Lake Central Nord crosses ahead of you, then
    follow it in."
   "This is mobile one. Roger."
    A few minutes later, Met eased his car into the terminal basement parking
    area.
    Near his parking stall was a locked box with an airport telephone. He used
    one of his passkeys to open the box, and dialed the Snow Desk. Danny Farrow
    answered. Was there any fresh news, Met inquired, about the mired
    A6reo-Mexican jet?
    "Negative," Danny said. "And the tower chief said to tell you that not
    being able to use runway three zero is still slowing traffic fifty percent.
    Also, he's getting more phone complaints from Meadowood every time there's
    a takeoff over there."
    Mel said grimly, "Meadowood will have to suffer." Community meeting or not,
    there was nothing he could
  76                           AIRPORT

  do to eliminate overhead noise for the time being. The most important thing
  at the moment was to reduce the lag in operations. "Where's Joe Patroni
  now?"
   "Same place. Still held up."
   "Can he make it for sure?"
    "TWA says so. He has a phone in his car, and they've been in touch."
    "As soon as Joe gets here," Mel instructed, "I want to be notified.
    Wherever I am."
   "That'll be downtown, I guess."
    Mel hesitated. There was no reason, he supposed, why he need remain at the
    airport any longer tonight. Yet again, unaccountably, he had the same sense
    of foreboding which had disturbed him on the airfield. He remembered his
    conversation earlier with the tower watch chief, the line of waiting
    aircraft on the ramp apron outside. He made a spontaneous decision.
    "No, I won't be downtown. We need that runway badly, and I'm not leaving
    until I know positively that Patroni is out there on the field, in charge."
    "In that case," Danny said, "I suggest you call your wife right now. Here's
    the number she's at."
    Mel wrote it down, then depressed the receiver rest and dialed the downtown
    number. He asked for Cindy, and after a brief wait, heard her voice say
    sharply, "Mel, why aren't you here?"
    "I'm sorry, I was held up. There've been problems at the airport. It's a
    pretty big storm . .
   "Damn you, get down here fast!"
    From the fact that his wife's voice was low, Mel deduced there were others
    within hearing. Just the same, she managed to convey a surprising amount of
    venom.
    Mel sometimes tried to associate the voice of Cindy nowadays with the Cindy
    he remembered before their marriage fifteen years ago. She had been a
    gentler person then, it seemed to him. In fact, her gentleness had been one
    of the things which appealed to Mel when they first met in San Francisco,
    he on leave from the Navy and Korea. Cindy had been an actress at the time,
    though in a minor way because the career she had hoped for had not worked
    out, and clearly wasn't going
                        AIRPORT                          77

  to. She had had a succession of diminishingly small parts in summer stock
  and television, and afterward, in a moment of frankness, admitted that
  marriage had been a welcome release from the whole thing.
    Years later, that story changed a little, and it became a favorite gambit
    of Cindy's to declare that she had sacrificed her career and probable
    stardom because of Mel. More recently, though, Cindy didn't like her past
    as an actress being mentioned at all. That was because she had read in
    Town and Country that actresses were seldom, if ever, included in The
    Social Register, and addition of her own name to the Register was
    something Cindy wanted very much indeed.
    "I'M Coming downtown to join you just as soon as I can," Mel said.
    Cindy snapped, "That isn't good enough. You should be here already. You
    knew perfectly well that tonight was important to me, and a week ago you
    made a definite promise."
    "A week ago I didn't know we were going to have the biggest storm in six
    years. Right now we've a runway out of use, there's a question of airport
    safety . . ."
    "You've people working for you, haven't you? Or are the ones you've
    chosen so incompetent they can't be left alone?"
    Mel said irritably, "They're highly competent. But I get paid to take
    some responsibility, too."
    "It's a pity you can't act responsibly to me. Time and again I make
    important social arrangements which you enjoy demolishing."
    Listening, as the words continued, Mel sensed that Cindy was getting
    close to boiling point. Without any effort, he could visualize her now,
    five feet six of imperious energy in her highest heels, clear blue eyes
    flashing, and her blonde coiffed head tilted back in that damnably
    attractive way she had when she was angry. That was one reason, Mel
    supposed, why, in their early years of marriage, his wife's temper
    outbursts seldom dismayed him. The more heated she became, it always
    seemed, the more desirable she grew. At such moments, he had invariably
    let his eyes rove upward, beginning w
  78                           AIRPORT

  her ankles-not hurriedly, because Cindy possessed extraordinarily attractive
  ankles and legs; in fact, better than those of most other women Mel knew-to
  the rest of her which was just as proportionate and physically appealing.
    In the past, when his eyes had made their appreciative assessment, some
    two-way physical communion sprang into being, prompting each to reach out,
    to touch one another, impulsively, hungrily. The result was predictable.
    Invariably, the origin of Cindy's anger was forgotten in a wave of
    sensuality which engulfed them. Cindy had an exciting, insistent savagery,
    and in their lovemaking would demand, Hurt me, goddam you, hurt me!" At the
    end, they would be spent and drained, so that picking up the skein of a
    quarrel was more than either had the wish or energy to do.
    It was, of course, a way of shelving, rather than resolving, differences
    which-Mel realized, even early on -were fundamental. As the years passed,
    and passion lessened, accumulated differences became more sharply accented.
    Eventually, they ceased entirely to use sex as a panacea and, in the past
    year or so, physical intimacy of any kind had become more and more
    occasional. Cindy, in fact, whose bodily appetites had always needed satis-
    fying whatever the state of mind between them, appeared in recent months to
    have become indifferent altogether. Mel had wondered about that. Had his
    wife taken a lover? It was possible, and Mel supposed he ought to care. The
    sad thing was, it seemed easier not to be concerned.
    Yet there were still moments when the sight or sound of Cindy in her
    willful anger could stir him physicafly, arousing old desires. He had that
    feeling now as he listened to her excoriating voice on the telephone.
    When he was able to cut in, he said, "It isn't true that I enjoy
    demolishing your arrangements. Most of the time I go along with what you
    want, even though I don't think the things we go to are all that important.
    What I
              Z,
  would enjoy are a few more evenings at home with the children."
                        AIRPORT                          79

  "That's a lot of crap," Cindy said, "and you know it." He felt himself
  tense, gripping the telephone more tightly. Then he conceded to himself:
  perhaps the last remark was true, to an extent. Earlier this evening he
  had been reminded of the times he had stayed at the airport when he could
  have gone home-merely because he wanted to avoid another fight with Cindy.
  Roberta and Libby had got left out of the reckoning then, as children did,
  he supposed, when marriages went sour. He should not have mentioned them.
    But apart from that, tonight was different. He ought to stay on at the
    airport, at least until it became known for sure what was happening about
    the blocked runway.
    "Look," Mel said, "let's make one thing clear. I haven't told you this
    before, but last year I kept some notes. You wanted me to come to
    fifty-seven of your charitable whingdings. Out of that I managed
    forty-five which is a whole lot more than I'd attend from choice, but it
    isn't a bad score."
    "You bastard! I'm not a ball game where you keep a scorecard. I'm your
    wife."
    Mel said sharply, "Take it easy!" He was becoming angry, himself. "Also,
    in case you don't know it, you're raising your voice. Do you want all
    those nice people around to know what kind of a heel you have for a
    husband?"
    "I don't give a goddam!" But she said it softly, just the same.
    "I do know you're my wife, which is why I intend to get down there just
    as soon as I can." What would happen, Mel wondered, if he could reach out
    and touch Cindy now? Would the old magic work? He decided not. "So save
    me a place, and tell the waiter to keep my soup warm. Also, apologize and
    explain why I'm late. I presume some of the people there have heard there
    is an airport." A thought struck him. "Incidentally, what's the occasion
    tonight?"
   "I explained last week."
   "Tell me again."
    "It's a publicity party-cocktails and dinner-to promote the costume ball
    which is being given next
  80                           AIRPORT

  month for the Archidona Children's Relief Fund. The press is here. They'll
  be taking photographs."
    Now Me[ knew why Cindy wanted him to hurry. With him there, she stood a
    better chance of being in the photographs-and on tomorrow's newspaper
    social pages.
    "Most other committee members," Cindy insisted, "have their husbands here
    already."
   "But not all?"
   "I said most."
   "And you did say the Archidona Relief Fund?"
   "Yes .
    "Which Arcbidona? There are two. One's in Ecuador, the other in Spain."
    At college, maps and geography had fascinated Mel, and he had a retentive
    memory.
    For the first time, Cindy hesitated. Then she said testily, "What does
    it matter? This isn't the time for stupid questions."
    Mel wanted to laugh out loud. Cindy didn't know. As usual, she had chosen
    to work for a charity because of who was involved, rather than what.
    He said maticiously, "How many letters do you expect to get from this
    one?"
   "I don't know what you mean."
   "Oh, yes, you do."
    To be considered for listing in The Social Register, a new aspirant
    needed eight sponsoring letters from people whose names already appeared
    there. At the last count Mel had heard, Cindy had collected four.
    "By God, Mel, if you say anything-tonigbt or any other time . . ."
    "Will the letters be free ones, or do you expect to pay for them like
    those other two?" He was aware of having an advantage now. It happened
    very rarely.
    Cindy said indignantly, "That's a filthy allegation. It's impossible to
    buy your way in. . ."
    "Nuts!" Mel said. "I get the canceled checks from our joint account.
    Remember?"
    There was a silence. Then Cindy asserted, low-voiced and savagely,
    "Listen to me! You'd better get here to-
                             AIRPORT                          81

  night, and soon. If you don't come, or if you do come and embw-rass me by
  saying anything of what you did just now, it'll be the end. Do you
  understand?"
    "I'm not sure that I do." Mel spoke quietly. Instinct cautioned him that
    this was an important moment for them both. "Perhaps you'd better tell me
    exactly what you mean."
   Cindy countered, "You figure it out."
   She hung up.

    On his way from the parking area to his office, Mel's fury seethed and
    grew. Anger had always come to him less quickly than to Cindy. He was the
    slow-bum type. But he was burning now.
    He was not entirely sure of the focus of his anger. A good deal was
    directed at Cindy, but there were other factors, too: His professional
    failure, as he saw it, to prepare eflectually for a new era of aviation; a
    seeming inability to infuse others any longer with his own convictions;
    high hopes, unfulfilled. Somehow, between them all, Mel thought, his
    personal and professional lives had become twin testaments to inadequacy.
    His marriage was on the rocks, or apparently about to go there; if and when
    it did, he would have failed his children, also. At the same time, at the
    airport, where he was trustee for thousands who passed through daily in
    good faith, all his efforts and persuasion had failed to halt
    deterioration. There, the high standards he had worked to build were
    eroding steadily.
    En route to the executive mezzanine, he encountered no one he knew. It was
    just as well. If he had been spoken to, whatever question had been put, be
    would have snarled a heated answer. In his office, he peeled off the heavy
    outdoor clothing and let it stay on the floor where it fell. He lit a
    cigarette. It had an acrid taste, and he stubbed it out. As he crossed to
    his desk, be was aware that the pain in his foot had returned, increas-
    ingly.
    There was a time-it seemed long ago-when on nights like this, if his
    wounded foot pained him, he would have gone home, where Cindy would have
    in-
      62                          AIRPORT

  sisted he relax. He would have a hot bath first, then after, while he lay
  face downward on their bed, she would massaae his back and neck with cool,
  firm fingers until pain ebbed out of him. It was unthinkable, of course,
  that Cindy would ever do the same thino again; but even if she did, he
  doubted that it would work. You could lose communication in other ways
  besides the spoken word.
   Seated at his desk, Mel put his head in his hands.
    As he had done on the airfield earlier, be shivered. Then, abruptly in
    the silent office, a telephone bell jangled. For a moment he ignored it.
    It rang again, and he realized it was the red alarm system telephone on
    a stand beside the desk. In two swift strides he reached it.
   "Bakersfeld here."
    He heard clicks and more acknowledgments as others came on the line.
    "This is Air Traffic Control," the tower chief's voice announced. "We
    have an airborne emergency, category three.

                            9

  Keith Bakersfeld, Mel's brother, was a third of the way through his
  eight-hour duty watch in the air traffic control radar room.
    In radar control, tonight's storm was having a profound effect, though
    not a directly physical one. To a spectator, Keith thought, lacking an
    awareness of the complex story which a conglomeration of radarscopes was
    telling, it might have seemed that the storm, raging immediately outside,
    was a thousand miles away.
    The radar room was in the control tower, one floor down from the
    glass-surrounded eyrie-the tower cab -from which ATC directed aircraft
    movement on the
                        AIRPORT                           83

  ground and immediate local flying. The radar section's jurisdiction
  extended beyond the airport, and radar controllers reached out to bridge
  the gap between local control and the nearest ATC regional center. The re-
  gional centers-usually miles from any airport-controlled main trunk
  airways and traffic coming on and off them.
    In contrast to the top portion of the tower, the radar room had no
    windows. Day and night, at Lincoln International, ten radar controllers
    and supervisors labored in perpetual semidarkness under dim moonglow
    lights. Around them, tightly packed equipment-radarscopes, controls,
    radio communications panels-lined all four walls. Usually, controllers
    worked in shirtsleeves since the temperature, winter or summer, was
    maintained at an even seventy degrees to protect the delicate electronic
    gear.
    The pervading tone in the radar room was calm. However, beneath the
    calmness, at all times, was a constant nervous strain. Tonight, the
    strain had been added to by the storm and, within the past few minutes,
    it had heightened further still. The effect was like stretching an
    already tensioned spring.
    Cause of the added tension was a signal on a radarscope which, in turn,
    had triggered a flashing red light and alarm buzzer in the control room.
    The buzzer had now been silenced, but the distinctive radar signal re-
    mained. Known as a double blossom, it had flowered on the semidarkened
    screen like a tremulous green carnation and denoted an aircraft in
    distress. In this case, the aircraft was a U. S. Air Force KC-135, high
    above the airport in the storm, and seeking an immediate emergency
    landing. Keith Bakersfeld bad been working the flatface scope on which
    the emergency signal appeared, and a supervisor had since joined him.
    Both were now transmitting urgent, swift decisions-by interphone to
    controllers at adjoining positions, and by radio to other aircraft.
    The tower watch chief on the floor above had been promptly informed of
    the distress signal. He, in turn,
  84                           AIRPORT

  had declared a category three emergency, alerting airport ground
  facilities.
    The flatface scope, at the moment the center of attention, was a
    horizontal glass circle, the size of a bicycle tire, set into a tabletop
    console. Its surface was dark green, with brilliant green points of light
    showing all aircraft in the air within a forty-mile radius. As the
    aircraft moved, so did the points of light. Beside each light point was
    a small plastic marker, identifying it. The markers were known
    colloquially as "shrimp boats" and controllers moved them by hand as
    aircraft progressed and their positions on the screen changed. As more
    aircraft appeared, they were identified by voice radio and similarly
    tagged. New radar systems dispensed with shrimp boats; instead,
    identifying letter-number codes-including altitude-appeared directly on
    the radar screen. But the newer method was not yet in wide use and, like
    all new systems, had bugs which needed elimination.
    Tonight there was an extraordinary number of aircraft on the screen, and
    someone had remarked earlier that the green pinpoints were proliferating
    like fecund ants.
    Keith was seated closest to the flatface, his lean, spindly figure
    hunched forward in a gray steel chair. His body was tense; his legs,
    hooked underneath the chair, were as rigid as the chair itself. He was
    concentrating, his face strained and gaunt, as it had been for months.
    The green reflection of the scope accentuated, eerily, deep hollows
    beneath his eyes. Anyone who knew Keith well, but had not seen him for
    a year or so, would have been shocked both by his appearance and his
    change in manner. Once, he had exuded an amiable, relaxed good-nature;
    now, all signs of it were gone. Keith was six years younger than his
    brother, Met, but nowadays appeared a good deal older.
    The change in Keith Bakersfeld had been noticed by his colleagues, some
    of whom were working tonight at other control positions in the radar
    room. They were also well aware of the reason for the change, a reason
    which had evoked genuine sympathy. However, they
                        AIRPORT                           85

  were practical men with an exacting job, which was why the radar
  supervisor, Wayne Tevis, was observing Keith covertly at this moment,
  watching the signs of increasing strain, as he had for some time. Tevis,
  a lanky, drawling Texan, sat centrally in the radar room on a high stool
  from where he could peer down over the shoulders of operators at the
  several radarscopes serving special functions. Tevis had personally
  equipped the stool with castors, and periodically he rode it like a horse,
  propelling himself by jabs of his hand-tooled Texan boots wherever he was
  needed at the moment.
    During the preceding hour, Wayne Tevis had at no point moved far away
    from Keith. The reason was that Tevis was ready, if necessary, to relieve
    Keith from radar watch, a decision which instinct told him might have to
    be made at any time.
    The radar supervisor was a kindly man, despite his mM flamboyance. He
    dreaded what he might have to do, and was aware of how far-reaching, for
    Keith, its effect could be. Nevertheless, if he had to, he would do it.
    His eyes on Keith's flatface scope, Tevis drawled, "Keith, old son, that
    Braniff flight is closing on Eastern. If you turn Braniff right, you can
    keep Eastern going on the same course." It was something which Keith
    should have seen himself, but hadn't.
    The problem, which most of the radar room crew was working at feverishly,
    was to clear a path for the Air Force KC-135, which had already started
    down on an instrument landing approach from ten thousand feet. The
    difficulty was-below the big Air Force jet were five airline flights,
    stacked at intervals of a thousand feet, and orbiting a limited airspace.
    All were awaiting their turn to land. A few mfles on either side were
    other columns of aircraft, simflarly stacked and, lower still, were three
    more airliners, already on landing approaches. In between them all were
    busy departure corridors. Somehow, the military flight had to be threaded
    down through the stacked civilian airplanes without a collision
    occurring. Under normal conditions the assignment would test the
    strongest nerves. As it was, the
  86                           AIRPORT

  situation was complicated by radio failure in the KC135, so that voice
  contact with the Air Force pilot had been lost.
    Keith Bakersfeld thumbed his microphone. "Braniff eight twenty-nine, make
    an immediate right turn, heading zero-niner-zero." At moments like this,
    even though pressures built to fever pitch, voices should stay calm.
    Keith's voice was highpitched and betrayed his nervousness. He saw Wayne
    Tevis glance at him sharply. But the blips on the radar screen, which had
    been uncomfortably close, began separating as the Braniff captain obeyed
    instructions. There were moments-this was one-when air traffic controllers
    thanked whatever gods they acknowledged for the swift, alert responses of
    airline pilots. The pilots might beef, and often did subsequently, at being
    given sudden course changes which required tight, abrupt turns and shook up
    passengers. But when a controller gave the order "immediate," they obeyed
    instantly and argued later.
    In another minute or so the Braniff flight would have to be turned again,
    and so would Eastern, which was at the same level. Even before that, there
    must be new courses for two TWAs-one higher, the other lowerplus a Lake
    Central Convair, an Air Canada Vanguard, and a Swissair just coming on the
    screen. Until the KC-135 had come through, these and others must be given
    zigzag courses, though for brief distances only, since none must stray into
    adjoining airspaces. In a way, it was like an intricate chess game, except
    that all the pieces were at various levels and moving at several hundred
    miles an hour. Also as part of the game, pieces had to be raised or lowered
    while they still moved forward, yet none must come closer than three miles
    laterally or a thousand feet vertically from another, and none must go over
    the edge of the board. And while all of it happened, the thousands of
    passengers, anxious for their journeys to end, had to sit in their airborne
    seats-and wait.
    In occasional moments of detachment, Keith wondered how the Air Force
    pilot, in difficulty and letting
                        AIRPORT                           87

  down through storm and crowded airspace, was feeling at this moment.
  Lonely, probably. Just as Keith himself was lonely; just as all life was
  lonely, even with others physically close beside you. The pilot would have
  a co-pilot and crew, in the same way that Keith had fellow-workers who,
  at this moment, were near enough to touch. But that was not the kind of
  nearness which counted. Not when you were alone in that inner room of the
  mind, where no one else could enter, and where you lived-apart and
  solitary-with awareness, memory, conscience, fear. Alone, from the moment
  you were born until you died. Always, and forever, alone.
    Keith Bakersfeld knew how much alone a single human being could be.
    In succession, Keith gave fresh courses to Swissair, one of the TWAs,
    Lake Central, and Eastern. Behind him he could bear Wayne Tevis trying
    to raise the Air Force KC-135 on radio again. Still no response, except
    that the distress radar blip, actuated by the KC-135 pilot, still
    blossomed on the scope. The position on the blip showed the pilot was
    doing the right thing-following exactly the instructions he had been
    given before the radio failure happened. In doing so, be would be aware
    that air traffic control could anticipate his movements. He would also
    know that his position could be seen by radar on the ground, and trusted
    that other traffic would be routed out of his way.
    The Air Force flight, Keith knew, had originated in Hawaii and come
    non-stop after mid-air refueling over the West Coast, its destination
    Andrews Air Force Base, near Washington. But west of the Continental
    Divide there had been an engine failure, and afterward electrical
    trouble, causing the airplane commander to elect an unscheduled landing
    at Smoky HUI, Kansas. At Smoky Hill, however, snow clearance of runways
    had not been completed, and the KC-135 was diverted to Lincoln
    International. Air Route Control nursed the military flight northeast
    across Missouri and Illinois. Then, thirty miles out, West Arrivals
    Control, in the person of Keith Bakersfeld, took over. It was soon
    after-
      88                           AIRPORT

  ward that radio failure had been added to the pilot's other troubles.
    Most times, when flying conditions were normal, military aircraft stayed
    clear of civil airports. But in a storm like tonight's help was asked-and
    given-without question.
    In this darkened, tightly packed radar room, other controllers, as well
    as Keith, were sweating. Yet no hint of pressures or tension must be
    betrayed by controllers' voices when speaking with pilots in the air. The
    pilots had plenty to concern themselves with at any time. Tonight,
    buffeted by the storm, and flying solely on instruments with nil
    visibility outside their cockpits, demands upon their skill were
    multiplied. Most pilots had already flown extra time because of delays
    caused by heavy traffic; now they would have to stay even longer in the
    air.
    From each radar control position a swift, quiet
  stream of radio orders was going out to hold even more
  flights clear of the danger area. The flights were
  awaiting their own turn to land and every minute or two
  were being joined by new arrivals coming off airways. A
  controller, his voice low but urgent, called over his
  shoulder. "Chuck, I've got a hot one. Can you take
  Delta seven three?" It was a controller's way of saying
  he was in trouble and had more than he could handle.
  Another voice, "Hell!-I'm piled up, too ... Wait! . . .
  Affirmative, I got it." A second's pause. "Delta seven
  three from Lincoln approach control. Turn left; heading
  one two zero. Maintain altitude, four thousand!" Con
  trollers helped each other when they could. A few min
  utes from now the second man might need help himself.
  "Hey, watch that Northwest; he's coming through from
  the other side. Christ! it's getting like the Outer Driv ' e at
  rush hour." . . . "American four four, hold present
    heading, what's your altitude?                         That Lufthansa de-
  parture's way off course. Get him the hell out of the
  approach area!" . . . Departing flights were being routed
  well around the trouble area, but arrivals were being
  held up, valuable landing time lost. Even later, when the
                        AIRPORT                          89

  emergency would be over, everyone knew it would take an hour or more to
  unravel the aerial traffic jam.
    Keith Bakersfeld was trying hard to maintain his concentration, to retain
    a mental picture of his sector and every aircraft in it. It required
    instant memorizingidentifications, positions, types of aircraft, speeds,
    altitudes, sequence of landing . . . a detailed diagram, in depth, with
    constant changes . . . a configuration which was never still. Even at
    quieter times, mental strain was unceasing; tonight, the storm was taxing
    cerebral effort to its limit. A controller's nightmare was to "lose the
    picture," a situation where an overtaxed brain rebelled and everything
    went blank. It happened occasionally, even to the best.
    Keith had been the best. Until a year ago, he was one whom colleagues
    turned to when pressures built to unreason. Keith, I'm getting swamped.
    Can you take a couple? He always had.
    But, lately, roles had changed. Now, colleagues shielded him as best they
    could, though there was a limit to how much any man could help another
    and do his own job, too.
    More radio instructions were needed. Keith was on his own; Tevis, the
    supervisor, had propelled himself and his high stool across the room to
    check another controller. Keith's mind clicked out decisions. Turn
    Branift left, Air Canada right, Eastern through a hundred and eighty
    degrees. It was done; on the radar screen, blips were changing direction.
    The slowermoving Lake Central Convair could be left another minute. Not
    so, the Swissair jet; it was converging with Eastern. Swissair must be
    given a new course immediately, but what? Think fast! Forty-five degrees
    right, but for a minute only, then right again. Keep an eye on TWA and
    Northwest! A new flight coming in from the west at high speed-identify,
    and find more airspace. Concentrate, concentrate!
    Keith determined grimly: He would not lose the picture; not tonight, not
    now.
    T'here was a reason for not doing so; a secret he had shared with no one,
    not even Natalie, his wife. Only
  90                          AIRPORT

  Keith Bakersfeld, and Keith alone, knew that this was the last time he would
  ever face a radarscope or stand a watch. Today was his last day with air
  traffic control. It would be over soon.
   It was also the last day of his life.
    "Take a break, Keith." It was the tower watch chief's voice.
    Keith had not seen the tower chief come, in. He had done so unobtrusively,
    and was standing by Wayne Tevis, the radar supervisor.
    A moment earlier, Tevis had told the tower chief quietly, "Keith's all
    right, I reckon. For a few minutes I was worried, but he seemed to pull
    together." Tevis was glad he had not had to take the drastic action he had
    contemplated earlier, but the tower chief murmured, "Let's take him off a
    while, anyway"; and, as an afterthought, "I'll do it."
    Glancing at the two men together, Keith knew at once why he was being
    relieved. There was still a crisis, and they didn't trust him. The work
    break was a pretext; he wasn't due for one for half-an-hour. Should he
    protest? For a controller as senior as himself, it was an indignity which
    others would notice. Then he thought: Why make an issue now? It wasn't
    worth it. Besides, a ten-minute break would steady him. Afterward, when the
    worst of the emergency was over, he could return to work for the remainder
    of his shift.
    Wayne Tevis leaned forward. "Lee will take over, Keith." He motioned to
    another controller who had just returned from his own work break-a
    scheduled one.
    Keith nodded, without comment, though he remained in place and continued to
    give radio instructions to aircraft while the new man got the picture. It
    usually took several minutes for one controller to hand over to another.
    The man coming in had to study the radar display, letting the over-all
    situation build in his mind. He also needed to become mentally tensed.
    Getting tensed-consciously and deliberately-was a part of the job.
    Controllers called it "sharpening to an edge," and in Keith's fifteen years
    in air traffic control, he had watched it happen regularly, to others and
    to
                        AIRPORT                          91

  himself. You did it, because you had to, when you took over a duty, as
  now. At other times it became a reflex action, such as when controllers
  drove to work together -in car pools, as some did. On leaving home,
  conversation would be relaxed and normal. At that point in the journey,
  a casual question like, "Are you going to the ball game Saturday?" would
  elicit an equally casual answer--"Sure am," or "No, I can't make it this
  week." Yet, nearing the job, conversation tautened, so that the same
  question-a quarter mile from the airport-might produce a terse
  "affirmative" or "negative," and nothing more.
    Coupled with tense mental sharpness was another requirement-a controlled,
    studied calmness at all times on duty. The two
    requirements---contradictory in terms of human nature-were exhausting
    mentally and, in the long run, took a toll. Many controllers developed
    stomach ulcers which they concealed through fear of losing their jobs.
    As part of the concealment, they paid for private medical advice instead
    of seeking free medical help to which their employment entitled them. At
    work, they hid bottles of Maalox-"'for the relief of gastric
    hyperacidity"-in their lockers and, at intervals, sipped the white,
    sweetish fluid surreptitiously.
    There were other effects. Some controllers-Keith Bakersfeld knew
    several-were mean and irascible at home, or flew into rages, as a
    reaction to pent-up emotions at work. Coupled with irregular hours of
    working and sleeping, which made it difficult to regulate a household,
    the effect was predictable. Among air traffic controllers, the list of
    broken homes was long, divorce rates high.
   "Okay," the new man said, "I have the picture."
    Keith slid out from his seat, disconnecting his headset as the relieving
    controller took his place. Even before the newcomer was seated, he had
    begun transmitting fresh instructions to the lower TWA.
    The tower chief told Keith, "Your brother said he might drop around
    later,"
    Keith nodded as he left the radar room. He felt no resentment against the
    tower chief, who had his own
  02                          AIRPORT

  responsibilities to contend with, and Keith was glad he had made no
  protest about being relieved prematurely. More than anything else at the
  moment, Keith wanted a cigarette, some coffee, and to be alone. He was
  also glad -now the decision had been made for him-to be away from the
  emergency situation. He had been involved in too many in the past to
  regret missing the culmination of one more.
    Air traffic emergencies of one kind or another occurred several times a
    day at Lincoln International, as they did at any major airport. They
    could happen in any kind of weather-on the clearest day, as well as
    during a storm like tonight's. Usually, only a few people knew about such
    incidents, because almost all were resolved safely, and even pilots in
    the air were seldom told the reason for delays or abrupt instructions to
    turn this way or that. For one thing, there was no need for them to know;
    for another, there was never time for radio small talk. Ground emergency
    staffs-crash crews, ambulance attendants, and police-as well as airport
    senior management, were always alerted, and the action they took depended
    on the category of emergency declared. Category one was the most serious,
    but was rarely invoked, since it signaled an actual crash. Category two
    was notification of imminent danger to life, or physical damage. Category
    three, as now, was a general warning to airport emergency facilities to
    stand by; they might be needed, or they might not. For controllers,
    however, any type of emergency involved additional pressures and af-
    tereffects.
    Keith entered the controllers' locker room which adjoined the radar
    control room. Now that he had a few minutes to think more calmly, he
    hoped, for the sake of everyone, that the Air Force KC-135 pilot, and all
    others in the air tonight, made it safely down through the storm.
    The locker room, a small cubicle with a single window, had three walls
    of metal lockers, and a wooden bench down the center. A notice board
    beside the window held an untidy collection of official bulletins and
    notices from airport social groups. An unshaded light
                        AIRPORT                          93

  bulb in the ceiling seemed dazzling after the radar room's semidarkness. No
  one else was in the locker room, and Keith reached for the light switch and
  turned it off. There were floodlights on the tower outside, and enough light
  came in for him to see.
    He lit a cigarette. Then, opening his locker, he took out the lunch pail
    which Natalie had packed before his departure from home this afternoon. As
    he poured coffee from a Thermos, he wondered if Natalie bad put a note in
    with his meal, or, if not a note, some inconsequential item she had clipped
    from a newspaper or a magazine. She often did one of both, hoping, he sup-
    posed, that it might cheer him. She had worked hard at doing that, right
    from the beginning of his trouble. At first, she had used obvious ones,
    though Keith had always realized-in a detached, dispassionate kind of
    way-exactly what Natalie was doing, or trying to. More recently, there had
    been fewer notes and clippings-
    Perhaps Natalie, too, had finaUy lost heart. She had had less to say
    lately, and he knew, from the redness of her eyes, there were times she had
    been crying.
    Keith had wanted to help her when he saw it. But how could he-when he
    couldn't help himself?
    A picture of Natalie was taped to the inside of his locker door-a snapshot,
    in color, which Keith bad taken. He had brought it here three years ago.
    Now, the light from outside shone on the picture only dimly, but he knew it
    so well, he could see what was there, whether highlighted or not.
    The picture showed Natalie in a bikini. She was seated on a rock, laughing,
    one slim hand held above her eyes to shield them from the sun. Her light
    brown hair streamed behind; her smaU, pert face showed the freckles which
    always appeared in summer. There was an impudent, pixyish quality to
    Natalie Bakersfeld, as well as strength of will, and the camera had caught
    both. In the rear of the picture was a blue-water lake, high ftrs, and a
    rocky outcropping. They had been on a motoring holiday in Canada, camping
    among the Haliburton lakes, and for once their children, Brian and
  94                          AIRPORT

  Theo, had been left behind in Illinois, with Mel and Cindy. The holiday
  proved to be one of the happier times that Keith and Natalie had ever
  known.
    Perhaps, Keith thought, it wasn't a bad thing to be remembering it
    tonight.
    Pushed in behind the photo was a folded paper. It was one of the notes
    he had been thinking about, which Natalie put occasionally in his lunch
    pail. This was one from a few months ago which, for some reason, he had
    saved. Though knowing what was there, he took the paper out and walked
    to the window to read. It was a clipping from a news magazine, with some
    lines below in his wife's handwriting.
    Natalie had all kinds of odd interests, some farranging, which she
    encouraged Keith and the boys to share. This clipping was about
    continuing experiments, by U.S. geneticists. Human sperm, it reported,
    could now be fast frozen. The sperm was placed in a deep freeze for
    storage where it remained in good condition indefinitely. When thawed,
    it could be used for fertdization of women at any time---either soon or
    generations hence.
   Natalie had written:

The Ark could have been 50 percent smaller, if Noah
    Had known the facts about frozen spermatazoa; It appears you can have
    babies by the score
    Merely by opening a refrigerator door.
    I'm glad we had our ration
    With love and passion.

    She had been trying then; still trying desperately to return their lives
    . . . the two of them; and as a family
    . . to the way they had been before. With love and passion.
    Met had joined forces, too, attempting with Natalie, to induce his
    brother to fight free from the tide-race of anguish and depression which
    engulfed him totally.
    Even then a part of Keith had wanted to respond. Summoning, from some
    deep consciousness, a spark of
                        AIRPORT                           95

  spirit, he had sought to match their strength by drawing on his own; to
  respond to proffered love with love himself. But the effort failed. It
  failed-as he had known it would-because there was no feeling or emotion left
  within himself. Neither warmth, nor love, nor even anger to be kindled. Only
  bleakness, remorse, and allenveloping despair.
    Natalie realized their failure now; he was sure of that. It was the reason,
    he suspected, that she had been crying, somewhere out of sight.
    And Mel? Perhaps Mel, too, bad given up. Though not entirely-Keith
    remembered what the tower chief had told him. "Your brother said he might
    drop around

    It would be simpler if Mel didn't. Keith felt unequal to the ellort, even
    though they had been as close as brothers could be all their lives. Mel's
    presence might be complicating.
    Keith Nvas too drained, too weary, for complications any more.
    He wondered again if Natalie had put in a note with his meal tonight. fie
    took out the contents of the lunch pail carefully, hoping that she had.
    There were ham and watercress sandwiches, a container of cottage cheese, a
    pear, and wrapping paper. Nothing more.
    Now that he knew there was none, he wished desperately there had been some
    message; any message, even the most trifling. Then he realized-it was his
    own fault; there had been no time. Today, because of the preparations he
    needed to make, he had left home earlier than usual. Natalie, to whom he
    had given no advance warning, had been rushed. At one point, he had sug-
    gested not taking a lunch at all; he would get a meal, he said, at one of
    the airport cafeterias. But Natalie, who knew the cafeterias would be
    crowded and noisy, which Keith disliked, had said no, and gone ahead as
    quickly as she could. She had not asked why he wanted to leave early,
    though he knew she was curious. Keith was relieved that there had been no
    question. If there had been, he would have had to invent something, and he
  %                           AIRPORT

  would not have wanted the last words between them to have been a lie.
    As it was, there had been enough time. He had driven to the airport
    business area and registered at the O'Hagan Inn where, earlier in the
    day, he had made a reservation by telephone. He had planned everything
    carefully, using a plan worked out several weeks ago, though he had
    waited-giving himself time to think about it, and be sure-before putting
    the plan into effect. After checking into his room, he had left the Inn
    and arrived at the airport in time to go on duty.
    The O'Hagan Inn was within a few minutes' drive of Lincoln International.
    In a few hours from now, when Keith's duty watch was ended, he could go
    there quickly. The room key was in his pocket. He took it out to check.

  The inform a tion-wh ich the tower watch chief had relayed earlier to Mel
  Bakersfeld-about a meeting of Meadowood citizenry, was entirely accurate.
    The meeting, in the Sunday school hall of Meadowood First Baptist
    Church-fifteen seconds, as a jet flies, from the end of runway two
    five-had been in session half-an-hour. Its proceedings had started later
    than planned, since most of the six hundred adults who were present had
    had to battle their way, in cars and on foot, through deep snow. But
    somehow they had come.
    It was a mixed assemblage, such as might be found in any averagely
    prosperous dormitory community. Of the men, some were medium-level
    executives, others artisans, with a sprinkling of local tradespeople. In
    numbers, men and women were approximately equal. Since it was Friday
    night, the beginning of a weekend, most
                        AIRPORT                          97

  were casually dressed, though exceptions were half a dozen v.~sitors from
  outside the community and several press rePorters.
    The Sunday school hall was now uncomfortably crowded, stuffy and
    smoke-filled. All available chairs were occupied, and at least a hundred
    people were standinv.
    That so many had turned out at all on such a night, leaving warm homes to
    do so, spoke eloquently of their mettle and concern. They were also, at the
    moment, unanimously angry.
    The anger-almost as tangible as the tobacco smoke -had two sources. First
    was the long-standing bitterness with the airport's by-product-the
    thunderous, ear-assaulting noise of jet propulsion which assailed the homes
    of Meadowood, day and night, shattering peace and privacy, both waking and
    sleeping. Second was the immediate frustration that, through a large part
    of the meeting so far, those assembled had been unable to hear one another.
    Some difficulty in hearing had been anticipated. After all, it was what the
    meeting was about, and a portable p.a. system had been borrowed from the
    church. What had not been expected, however, was that tonight jet aircraft
    would be taking off immediately overhead, rendering both human ears and the
    p.a. system useless. The cause, which the meeting neither knew nor cared
    about, was that runway three zero was blocked by the mired A6reo-Mexican
    707, and other aircraft were being instructed to use runway two five
    instead. The latter runway pointed directly at Meadowood, like an arrow;
    whereas runway three zero, when usable, at least routed takeoffs slightly
    to one side.
    In a momentary silence the chairman, red-faced, shouted, "Ladies and
    gentlemen, for years we have tried reasoning with the airport management
    and the airline companies. We have pointed to the violation of our homes.
    We have proved, with independent testimony, that normal living-under the
    bar-rage of noise we are forced to endure--is impossible. We have pleaded
    that our very sanity is in danger and that our wives, our
  98                          AIRPORT

  children, and ourselves live on the edge of nervous breakdowns, which some
  among us have suffered already."
    The chairman was a beavy-jowled, balding man named Floyd Zanetta, who was
    a printing firm manager and Meadowood homeowner. Zanetta, sixtyish, was
    prominent in community affairs, and in the lapel of his sports jacket was
    a Kiwanis long-service badge.
    Both the chairman and an impeccably dressed younger man were on a small
    raised platform at the front of the hall. The younger man, seated, was
    Elliott Freemantle, a lawyer. A black leather briefcase stood open at his
    side.
    Floyd Zanetta slarnmed a hand on the lectern in front of him. "N"at do the
    airport and airlines do? I'll tell you what they do. They pretend; pretend
    to Listen. And while they are pretending, they make promises and more
    promises which they have no intention of fulfilling. The airport
    management, the FAA, and the airlines are cheats and liars . . ."
   The word "liars" was lost.
    It was engLdfed in a shattering, almost unbelievable crescendo of iound, a
    monstrous roar of power which seemed to seize the budding and shake it. As
    if protectively, many in the hall covered their ears. A few glanced upward
    nervously. Others, their eyes transmitting anger, spoke heatedly to those
    beside them, though only a Lip reader could have known what was said; no
    words were audible. A water pitcher near the chairman's lectern trembled.
    If Zanetta had not grasped it quickly, it would have fallen to the floor
    and shattered.
    As swiftly as it had begun and built, the roar lessened and faded. Already
    miles away and several thousand feet above, Flight 58 of Pan American was
    climbing through storm and darkness, reaching for higher, clearer
    altitudes, swinging onto course for Frankfurt, Germany. Now, Continental
    Airlines 23, destination Denver, Colorado, was rolling on the farther end
    of runway two five, cleared for takeoff--over Meadowood. Other flights,
    already in line on an adjoining taxiway, were waiting their turn to follow.
                        AIRPORT                          99

    It had been the same way all evening, even before the Meadowood meeting
    started. And after it started, business had had to be conducted in brief
    intervals between the overwhelming din of takeoffs.
    Zanetta continued hastily, "I said they are cheats and liars. What is
    happening here and now is conclusive evidence. At the very least we are
    entitled to noise abatement procedures, but tonight even this . . ."
    "Mr. Chairman," a woman's voice cut in from the body of the hall, "we've
    heard all this before. We all know it, and going over it again won't change
    anything." All eyes had turned to the woman, who was now standing. She had
    a strong, intelligent face and shoulder-length brown hair which had fallen
    forward, so that she brushed it back impatiently. "What I want to know, and
    so do others, is what else can we do, and where do we go from here?"
   There was an outburst of applause, and cheering.
    Zanetta said irritably, "If you'll kindly let me finish. . ."
   He never did.
    Once again, the same encompassing roar dominated the Sunday school ball.
    The tin-Ling, and the last remark, provided the only laughter, so far, of
    the evening. Even the chairman grinned ruefully as he raised his hands in
    a despairing gesture.
   A man's voice called peevishly, "Get on with it!"
    Zanetta nodded agreement. He continued speaking, picking his way-like a
    climber over rocks-between recurring peaks of sound from overhead. What the
    community of Meadowood must do, he declared, was to discard politeness and
    reasonable approaches to the airport authority and others. Instead, a
    purely legalistic attack must be the order from now on. The residents of
    Meadowood were citizens with legal rights, which were being infringed upon.
    Along with those legal rights went recourse to the courts; therefore, they
    must be prepared to fight in the courts, with toughness, even viciousness
    if necessary. As to what form a legalistic offensive should take, it so
    happened that a noted lawyer, Mr. Elliott
  100                         AIRPORT

  Freemantle, whose offices were downtown in the Loop, had consented to be
  present at the meeting. Mr. Freemantle had made a study of laws affecting
  excessive noise, privacy and airspace, and, very soon, those who had braved
  the weather to attend would have the pleasure of hearing this distinguished
  gentleman. He would, in fact, present a proposal ...
    As the clich6s rolled on, Elliott Freemantle fidgeted. He passed a hand
    lightly over his barber-styled, graystreaked hair, fingering the smoothness
    of his chin and cheeks-he had shaved an hour before the meetingand his keen
    sense of'smell confirmed that the exclusive face lotion, which be always
    used after shaving and sunlamp sessions, still lingered. He recrossed his
    legs, observing that his two-hundred dollar alligator shoes still gleamed
    with mirror clearness, and was careful not to spoil the crease in the
    trousers of his tailored Blue Spruce pebble-weave suit. Elliott Freemantle
    had long ago discovered that people preferred their lawyers unlike their
    doctors--to look prosperous. Prosperity in a lawyer conveyed an aura of
    success at the bar, success which those about to engage in litigation
    wanted for themselves.
    Elliott Freemantle hoped that most of those in the hall would shortly
    become litigants, and that he would represent them. Meanwhile, he wished
    the old cluck of a chairman, Zanetta, would get the bell off his feet so
    that he, Freemantle, could take over. There was no surer way to lose the
    confidence of an audience, or a jury, than by letting them think faster
    than yourself, so that they became aware of what you were going to say
    before you said it. Freemantle's finely honed intuition told him this was
    what was happening now. It meant that when his own turn came, he would have
    to work that much harder to establish his competence and superior
    intellect.
    Some among his legal colleagues might have questioned whether Elliott
    Freemantle's intellect was, in fact, superior. They might even have
    objected to the chairman's description of him as a gentleman.
   Fellow lawyers sometimes regarded Freemantle as an
             AIRPORT           101

 exhibitionist who commanded high fees mainly through a showman's instinct
 for attracting attention. It was conceded, though, that he had an enviable
 knack for latching early onto causes which later proved spectacular and
 profitable.
  For Elliott Freemantle, the Meadowood situation seemed custom made.
  He had read about the community's problem and promptly arranged, through
  contacts, to have his name suggested to several homeowners as the one
  lawyer who could most likely help them. As a result, a homeowners
  committee eventually approached him, and the fact that they did so,
  rather than the other way around, gave him a psychological advantage he
  had planned from the beginning. Meanwhile, he had made a superficial
  study of the law, and recent court decisions, affecting noise and
  privacy--a subject entirely new to him-and when the committee arrived,
  he addressed them with the assurance of a lifetime expert.
  Later, he had made the proposition which resulted in this meeting
  tonight, and his own attendance.
  Thank God! It looked as if Zanetta, the chairman, were finally through
  with his windy introduction. Banal to the last, he was intoning, ". . .
  and so it is my privilege and pleasure to present . . ."
  Scarcely waiting for his name to be spoken, Elliott Freemantle bounded
  to his feet. He began speaking before Zanetta's buttocks had made contact
  with his chair. As usual, he dispensed with all preliminaries.
  "If you are expecting sympathy from me, you can leave right now, because
  there won't be any. You won't get it at this session, or others we may
  have later. I am not a purveyor of crying towels, so if you need them,
  I suggest you get your own, or supply each other. My business is law.
  Law, and nothing else."
  He had deliberately made his voice harsh, and he knew he had jolted them,
  as he intended to.
  He had also seen the newspaper reporters look up and pay attention. There
  were three of them at the press table near the front of the hall-two
  young men from the big city dailies and an elderly woman from a local
 102          AIRPORT

 weekly. All were important to his plans, and he had taken the trouble to
 find out their names and speak to them briefly before the meeting started.
 Now, their pencils were racing. Good! Cooperation with the press always
 ranked high in any project of Elliott Freemantle's, and he knew from
 experience that the best way to achieve it was by providing a lively story
 with a fresh angle. Usually he succeeded. Newspaper people appreciated
 that-a lot more than free drinks or food-and the livelier and more
 colorful the story, the more friendly their reportage was inclined to be.
 He returned his attention to the audience.
  Only a shade less aggressively, he continued. "If we decide, between us,
  that I am to represent you, it will be necessary for me to ask you
  questions about the effect of airport noise on your homes, your families,
  your own physical and mental health. But do not imagine I shall be asking
  the questions because I care personally about these things, or you as
  individuals. Frankly, I don't. You may as well know that I am an
  extremely selfish man. If I ask these questions, it will be to discover
  to what extent wrong has been done you under the law. I am already
  convinced that some wrong has been done -perhaps considerable wrong-and,
  in that event, you are entitled to legal redress. But you may as well
  know that whatever I learn, and however deeply I become involved, I am
  not given to losing sleep about the welfare of my clients when I'm away
  from my office or the courts. But . . ." Freemantle paused dramatically,
  and stabbed a finger forward to underscore his words. "But, in my office
  and in the courts, as clients, you would have the utmost of my attention
  and ability, on questions of law. And on those occasions, if we work to-
  gether, I promise you will be glad I am on your side and not against
  you."
  Now he had the attention of everyone in the hall. Some, both men and
  women, were sitting forward in their chairs, striving not to miss any
  words as he paused -though for the minimum time-as aircraft continued
  overhead. A few faces had become hostile as he spoke, but not many. It
  was time, though, to relax the pressure
              AIRPORT          103

 a little. lie gave a swift, short smile, then went on seriously.
  "I inform you of these things so that we understand each other. Some
  people tell me that I am a mean, unpleasant man. Maybe they are right,
  though personally if ever I want a lawyer for myself I'll make sure of
  choosing someone who is mean and unpleasant, also tough-on my behalf."
  There were a few approving nods and smiles.
  "Of course, if you want a nicer guy who'll hand you more sympathy, though
  maybe a bit less law"-Elliott Freemantle shrugged-"that's your
  privilege."
  He had been watching the audience closely and saw a responsible-looking
  man, in heavy rimmed glasses, lean toward a woman and whisper. From their
  expressions, Freemantle guessed the man was saying, "This is more like
  ifl-what we wanted to hear." The woman, probably the whisperer's wife,
  nodded agreement. Around the hall, other faces conveyed the sam e
  impression.
  As usual on occasions like this, Elliott Freemantle had shrewdly judged
  the temper of the meeting and calculated his own approach. He sensed
  early that these people were weary of platitudes and sympathy-wellmeaning
  but ineffective. His own words, blunt and brutal, were like a cold,
  refreshing douche. Now, before minds could relax and attention wander,
  be must take a new tack. The moment for specifics had arrived-tonight,
  for this group, a discourse on the law of noise. Tbe trick to holding
  audience attention, at which Elliott Freemantle excelled, was to stay
  half a mental pace ahead; that much and no more, so that those listening
  could follow what was being said, but must remain sufficiently alert to
  do so.
  "Pay attention," he commanded, "because I'm going to talk about your
  particular problem."
  The law of noise, he declared, was increasingly under study by the
  nation's courts. Old concepts were changing. New court decisions were
  establishing that excessive noise could be an invasion of privacy as well
  as trespass on property rights. Moreover, courts were in a mood to grant
  injunctions and financial recompense
 104          AIRPORT

 where intrusion-including aircraft intrusion-could be proven.
  Elliott Freemantle paused while another takeoff thundered overhead, then
  gestured upward. "I believe you will have no difficulty in proving it
  here."
 At the press table, all three reporters made a note.
  The United States Supreme Court, he went on, had already set a precedent.
  In U.S. v. Causby the court ruled that a Greensboro, North Carolina,
  chicken farmer was entitled to compensation because of "invasion" by
  military planes flying low above his house. In handing down the Causby
  decision, Mr. Justice Wifliam 0. Douglas had stated, ". . . if the
  landowner is to have full enjoyment of the land, he must have exclusive
  control of the immediate reaches of the enveloping atmosphere." In
  another case reviewed by the Supreme Court, Griggs v. County of
  Allegheny, a similar principle was upheld. In state courts of Oregon and
  Washington, in Thornburg v. Port of Portland and Martin v. Port of
  Seattle, damages for excessive aircraft noise had been awarded, even
  though airspace directly above the plaintiffs had not been violated.
  Other communities had begun, or were contemplating, similar legal action,
  and some were employing sound trucks and movie cameras as aids to proving
  their case. The trucks took decibel readings of noise; the cameras
  recorded aircraft altitudes. The noise frequently proved greater, the
  altitudes lower, than airlines and airport management admitted. In Los
  Angeles, a homeowner had filed suit against L. A. International Airport,
  asserting that the airport, by permitting landings on a newly extended
  runway close to his home, had taken an easement on his property without
  due process of law. The homeowner was claiming ten thousand dollars which
  he believed to be equivalent to the decrease in value of his home. Else-
  where, more and more similar cases were being argued in the courts.
  The recital was succinct and impressive. Mention of a specific surn-ten
  thousand dollars-evoked immediate interest, as Elliott Freemantle
  intended that it should. The entire presentation sounded authoritative,
  factual,
             AIRPORT           105

 and the product of years of study. Only Freemantle himself knew that his
 "facts" were the result, not of poring over law reports, but of two hours,
 the previous afternoon, spent studying newsclippings in a downtown newspaper
 morgue.
  There were also several facts which he had failed to mention. The chicken
  farmer ruling of the Supreme Court was made more than twenty years earlier,
  and total damages awarded were a trifling three hundred and seventy-five
  dollars-the actual value of some dead chickens. The Los Angeles suit was
  merely a claim which had not yet come to trial and might never do so. A
  more significant case, Batten v. U.S., on which the Supreme Court had ruled
  as recently as 1963, Elliott Freemantle knew about but conveniently
  ignored. In Batten, the court accepted that only an actual "physical
  invasion" could create liability; noise alone did not do so. Since, at
  Meadowood, there had been no such invasion, the Batten precedent meant that
  if a legal case was launched, it might well be lost before it was begun.
  But lawyer Freemantle had no wish for this to be known, at least not yet;
  nor was he overly concerned whether a case, if brought to court, might
  eventually be won or lost. What he wanted was this Meadowood homeowners
  group as clients-at a whopping fee.
  On the subject of fee, he had already counted the house and done some
  mental arithmetic. The result delighted him.
  Of six hundred people in the hall, he estimated that five hundred, probably
  more, were Meadowood property owners. Allowing for the presence of husbands
  and wives together, it meant there was a minimum of two hundred and fifty
  prospective clients. If each of those two hundred and fifty could be
  persuaded to sign a one hundred dollar retainer a,~reement-which Elliott
  Freemantle hoped they would before the evening was over-a total fee in
  excess of twenty-five thousand dollars seemed decidedly within reach.
  On other occasions he had managed precisely the same thing. It was
  remarkable what you could accomplish with audacity, particularly when
  people were white
 106          AIRPORT

 hot in pursuing their own interests. An ample supply of printed retainer
 forms was in his bag. This memorandum of ajqreement between . . . . . .
 . . hereinaf ter known as plaintifils and Freemantle and Sye, attorneys
 at law ... who will undertake plaintijffls legal representation in
 promotion of a claim for damages sustained due to aircraft use of the
 Lincoln International Airport facility . . . Plaintijff Is agrees to pay
 the said Freemantle and Sye one hundred dollars, in four installments of
 twenty-five dollars, the first installment now due and payable, the
 balance quarterly on demand ... Further, if the suit is successful
 Freemantle and Sye will receive ten percent of the gross amount of any
 damages awarded. . .
  The ten percent was a long shot because it was highly unlikely that there
  would ever be any damages to collect. Just the same, strange things
  sometimes happened in law, and Elliott Freemantle believed in covering
  all bases.
  "I have informed you of the legal background," he asserted. "Now I intend
  to give you some advice." He flashed one of his rare, quick smiles. "This
  advice will be a free sample, but-like toothpaste-any subsequent tubes
  will have to be paid for."
  There was a responsive laugh which he cut off brusquely with a gesture.
  "My advice is that there is little time for anything else but action.
  Action now."
  The remark produced handclapping and more nods of approval.
  There was a tendency, he continued, to regard legal proceedings as
  automatically slow and tedious. Often that was true, but on occasions,
  if determination and legal skill were used, the law could be harried
  along. In the present instance, legal action should be begun at once,
  before airlines and airport, by perpetuation of noise over a period of
  years, could claim custom and usage. As if to underline the point, still
  another aircraft thundered overhead. Before its sound could die, Elliott
  Freemantle shouted, "So I repeat-my advice to you is wait no longer! You
  should act tonight. Now!"
 Near the front of the audience, a youngish man. in an
              AIRPORT          107

 alpaca cardigan and hopsack slacks sprang to his feet. "By God!--tell us how
 we start."
  "You start-if you want to-by retaining me as your legal counsel."
  There was an instant chorus of several hundred voices. "Yes, we want to."
  The chairman, Floyd Zanetta, was now on his feet again, waiting for the
  shouting to subside. He appeared pleased. Two of the reporters had craned
  around and were observing the obvious enthusiasm throughout the haH. The
  third reporter-the elderly woman from the local weekly-looked up at the
  platform with a friendly smile.
  It had worked, as Elliott Freemantle had known it would. The rest, he
  realized, was merely routine. Within the next half hour a good many of the
  retainer blanks in his bag would be signed, while others would be taken
  home, talked over, and most likely mailed tomorrow. These people were not
  afraid of signing papers, or of legal procedures; they had become
  accustomed to both in purchasing their homes. Nor would a hundred dollars
  seem an excessive sum; a few might even be surprised that the figure was
  that low. Only a handful would bother doing the mental arithmetic which
  Elliott Freemantle had done himself, and even if they objected to the size
  of the total amount, he could argue that the fee was justified by
  responsibility for the large numbers involved.
  Besides, he would give them value for their moneya good show, with
  fireworks, in court and elsewhere. He glanced at his watch; better get on.
  Now that his own involvement was assured, he wanted to cement the rela-
  tionship by staging the first act of a drama. Like every.thing else so far,
  it was something he had already planned and it would gain attention-much
  more than this meeting-in tomorrow's newspapers. It would also confirm to
  these people that he meant what he said about not wasting any time.
  The actors in the drama would be the residents of Meadowood, here
  assembled, and he hoped that every-
   108          AIRPORT

 one present was prepared to leave this hall and to stay out late.
 The scene would be the airport.
 The time: tonight.

 At approximately the same time that Elliott Freemantle was savoring
 success, an embittered, thwarted, former building contractor named D. 0.
 Guerrero was surrendering to failure.
  Guerrero was fifteen miles or so from the airport, in a locked room of
  a shabby walk-up apartment on the city's South Side. The apartment was
  over a noisome, greasy-spoon lunch counter on 51st Street, not far from
  the stockyards.
  D. 0. Guerrero was a gaunt, spindly man, slightly stoop-shouldered, with
  a sallow face and protruding, narrow jaw. He had deep-set eyes, pale thin
  lips, and a slight sandy mustache, His neck was scrawny, with a prominent
  Adam's apple. His hairline was receding. He had nervous hands, and his
  fingers were seldom still. He smoked constantly, usually lighting a fresh
  cigarette from the stub of the last. At the moment he needed a shave and
  a clean shirt, and was perspiring, even though the room in which he bad
  locked himself was cold. His age was fifty; he looked several years
  older.
  Guerrero was married, and had been for eighteen years. By some standards,
  the marriage was good, if unspectacular. D.O. (through most of his life
  he bad been known by his initials) and Inez Guerrero accepted each other
  equably, and the idea of coveting some other partner seemed not to occur
  to them. D. 0. Guerrero, in any case, had never been greatly interested
  in women; business, and financial maneuvering, occupied Ws
              AIRPORT          109

 thoughts far more. But in the past year, a mental gulf had opened between
 the Guerreros which Inez, though she tried, was unable to bridge. It was
 one result of a series of business disasters which reduced them from
 comparative affluence to near poverty, and eventually forced a succession
 of moves-first from their comfortable and spacious, if heavily mortgaged,
 suburban home to other quarters less pretentious, and later still to this
 seamy, drafty, cockroach-infested, two-room apartment.
  Even though Inez Guerrero did not enjoy their situation, she might have
  made the best of it if her husband had not become increasingly moody,
  savagely bad tempered, and at times impossible to talk with. A few weeks
  ago, in a rage, he had struck Inez, bruising her face badly, and though
  she would have forgiven him, he would neither apologize nor discuss the
  incident later. She feared more violence and, soon after, sent their two
  teen-age children-a boy and a girl-to stay with her married sister in
  Cleveland. Inez herself stayed on, taking a job as a coffee-house
  waitress, and although the work was hard and the pay small, it at least
  provided money for food. Her husband seemed scarcely to notice the
  children's absence, or her own; his mood recently had been a deep and
  self-contained dejection.
  Inez wits now at her job. D. 0. Guerrero was in the apartment alone. He
  need not have locked the door of the small bedroom where he was occupied,
  but had done so as an added guarantee of privacy, even though he would
  not be there for long.
  Like others this night, D. 0. Guerrero would shortly leave for the
  airport. He held a confirmed reservation, plus a validated ticket-for
  tonight-on Trans America Flight Two to Rome. At this moment, the ticket
  was in a pocket of his topcoat, also in the locked room, slung over a
  rickety wooden chair.
  Inez Guerrero had no knowledge of the ticket to Rome, nor did she have
  the slightest inkling of her husband's motive in obtaining it.
  The Trans America ticket was for a round trip excursion which normally
  cost four hundred and seventy-four
 110          AIRPORT

 dollars. However, by lying, D. 0. Guerrero had obtained credit. He had
 paid forty-seven dollars down, acquired by pawning his wife's last
 possession of any value-her mother's ring (Inez had not yet missed it)
 -and promised to remit the balance, plus interest, in monthly installments
 over the next two years.
  It was highly unlikely that the promise would ever be fulfilled.
  No self-respecting finance company or bank would have loaned D. 0.
  Guerrero the price of a bus ticket to Peoria, let alone an airline fare
  to Rome. They would have investigated his background thoroughly, and dis-
  covered that he had a long history of insolvency, a parcel of
  long-standing personal debts, and that his homebuilding company, Guerrero
  Contracting Inc., had been placed in bankruptcy a year earlier.
  An even closer check into Guerrero's tangled finances might have
  disclosed that during the past eight months -using his wife's name-be had
  attempted to raise capital for a speculative land deal, but failed to do
  so. In course of this failure he had incurred even more debts. Now,
  because of certain fraudulent statements, as well as being an
  undischarged bankrupt, exposure, which seemed imminent, would involve
  criminal prosecution and almost certainly a prison term. Slightly less
  serious, but just as immediate, was the fact that the rent of this
  apartment, wretched as it was, was three weeks overdue, and the landlord
  had threatened eviction tomorrow. If evicted, they would have nowhere
  else to go.
  D. 0. Guerrero was desperate. His financial rating was minus zero.
  Airlines, though, were notably easygoing about extending credit; also,
  if a debt went sour they were usually less tough in collection procedures
  than other agencies. This was calculated policy. It was based on the fact
  that fare-paying air travelers, over the years, had proven themselves an
  unusually honest cross-section of society, and bad debt losses of most
  airlines were remarkably low. Deadbeats like D. 0. Guerrero troubled them
  rarely; therefore they were not geared-because it
              AIRPORT          ill

 was not worth while-to defeat the kind of subterfuge he had used.
  He avoided, by two simple means, more than a cursory credit
  investigation. First, he produced an "employer's reference" which he had
  typed himself on the letterhead of a defunct company he once operated
  (not the bankrupt one), the company's address being his own post office
  box. Second, in typing the letter he deliberately misspelled his surname,
  changing the initial from "G" to "B," so that a routine consumer credit
  check of "Buerrero" would produce no information, instead of the harmful
  data recorded under his correct name. For further identification he used
  his Social Security card and driver's license, on both of which he
  carefully changed the same initial beforehand, and had since changed it
  back again. Another point he remembered was to make sure that his
  signature on the time payment contract was indecipherable, so it was not
  clear whether he had signed "G" or "B."
  The misspelling was perpetuated by the clerk who yesterday made out his
  airline ticket in the name of "D. 0. Buerrero," and D. 0. Guerrero had
  weighed this carefully in light of his immediate plans. He decided not
  to worry. If any query was raised afterward, the error of a single
  letter, both on the "employer's reference" and the ticket, would appear
  to be a genuine mistake. There was nothing to prove he had arranged it
  deliberately. In any case, when checking in at the airport later tonight,
  he intended to have the spelling corrected-on the Trans America flight
  manifest as well as on his ticket. It was important, once he was aboard,
  to be sure there was no confusion about his correct identity. That was
  part of his plan, too.
  Another part of D. 0. Guerrero's plan was to destroy Flight Two by
  blowing it up. He would destroy himself along with it, a factor which did
  not deter him since his life, he reasoned, was no longer of value to
  himself or others.
  But his death could be of value, and he intended to make sure it was.
 Before departure of the Trans America flight, he
 112          AIRPORT

 would take out flight insurance for seventy-five thousand dollars, naming
 his wife and children as beneficiaries. He rationalized that he had done
 little for them until now, but his final act would be a single
 transcendent gesture on their behalf. He believed that what he was doing
 was a deed of love and sacrifice.
  In his warped, perverted mind-driven by desperation-he had given no
  thought to other passengers who would be aboard Flight Two, nor to the
  aircraft's crew, all of whose deaths would accompany his own. With a
  psychopath's total lack of conscience he had considered others only to
  the extent that they might circumvent his scheme.
 He believed he had anticipated all contingencies.
  The business, about his ticket would not matter once the aircraft was en
  route. No one could prove he had not intended to pay the installments he
  contracted for; and even if the fake "employer's reference" was exposed
  -as it probably would be-it demonstrated nothing except that lie had
  obtained credit under false pretenses. That, in itself, would have no
  bearing on a subsequent insurance claim.
  Another thing was that he deliberately bought a round-trip ticket to
  create the appearance of not only intending to complete the outward
  flight, but also to return. As to choosing a Rome flight, he had a second
  cousin in Italy whom he had never seen, but occasionally talked of
  visiting-a fact which Inez knew. So at least there would seem an element
  of logic to his choice.
  D. 0. Guerrero bad had his plan in mind for several months while his
  fortunes were worsening. During that time he studied carefully the
  histories of air disasters where airliners were destroyed by individuals
  seeking to profit from flight insurance. The number of instances was
  surprisingly large. In all cases on record the motive had been exposed
  by post-crash investigation and, where conspirators remained alive, they
  were charged with murder. The flight insurance policies of those involved
  had been invalidated.
  There was no means of knowing, of course, how many other disasters, where
  causes remained unknown,
              AIRPORT          113

 bad been the result of sabotage. The key factor was the presence or
 absence of wreckage. Wherever wreckage was recovered, trained
 investigators pieced it together in an attempt to learn its secrets. They
 usually succeeded. If there was an explosion in mid-air, its traces
 remained, and the nature of the explosion could be determined. Therefore,
 D. 0. Guerrero reasoned, his own plan must preclude the recovery of
 wreckage.
  This was the reason he had selected Trans America's non-stop flight to
  Rome.
  A large portion of the journey of Flight Two-The Golden Argosy-was above
  ocean, where wreckage from a disintegrated airplane would never be found.
  Using one of the airline's own passenger brochures which conveniently
  showed air routes, aircraft speeds, and even had a feature called Chart
  Your Own Position, Guerrero calculated that after four hours' flying-al-
  lowing for average winds-Flight Two would be over mid-Atlantic. He
  intended to check the calculation and amend it, if necessary, as the
  journey progressed. He would do so, first by noting the exact time of
  takeoff, then by listening carefully to the announcements which captains
  always made over cabin p.a. systems about the aircraft's progress. With
  the information it would be a simple matter to decide if the flight was
  behind schedule, or ahead, and by how much. Finally, at approximately a
  point he had already decided on-eight hundred miles east of
  Newfoundland-he would trigger an explosion. It would send the aircraft,
  or what remained of it, plummeting toward the sea.
 No wreckage could ever be found.
  The debris of Flight Two would remain forever, hidden and secret, on the
  Atlantic Ocean floor. There would be no examination, no later exposure
  of the cause of the aircraft's loss. Those left might wonder, question,
  speculate; they might even guess the truth, but they could never know.
  Flight insurance claims-in the absence of any evidence of sabotage-would
  be settled in full.
  The single element on which everything else hinged was the explosion.
  Obviously it must be adequate to
 114          AIRPORT

 destroy the airplane, but-equally important-it must occur at the right
 time, For the second reason D. 0. Guerrero had decided to carry the
 explosive device aboard and set it off himself. Now, within the locked
 bedroom, he was putting the device together, and despite his
 familiarity-as a building contractor-with explosives, was still sweating,
 as he had been since he started a qLiarter of an hour ago.
  There were five main components-three cartridges of dynamite, a tiny
  blasting cap with wires attached, and a single cell transistor radio
  battery. The dynamite cartridues were Du Pont Red Cross Extra-small but
  exceedingly powerful, containing forty percent nitroglycerin; each was
  an inch and a quarter in diameter and eight inches long. They were taped
  together with black electrician's tape and, to conceal their purpose,
  were in a Ry-Krisp box, left open at one end.
  Guerrero had also laid out several other items, carefully, on the ragged
  coverlet of the bed where he was working. These were a wooden clothespin,
  two thumbtacks, a square inch of clear plastic, and a short length of
  string. Total value of the equipment which would destroy a six and a half
  million dollar air-plane was less than five dollars. All of it, including
  the dynamite-a "leftover" from D. 0. Guerrero's days as a contractor -had
  been bought in hardware stores.
  Also on the bed was a small, flat attach6 case of the type in which
  businessmen carried their papers and books when traveling by air. It was
  in this that Guerrero was now histalling the explosive apparatus. Later,
  he would carry the case with him on the flight.
  It was all incredibly simple. It was so simple, in fact, Guerrero thought
  to himself, that most people, lacking a knowledge of explosives, would
  never believe that it would work. And yet it would-with shattering,
  devastating deadliness.
  He taped the Ry-Krisp box containing the dynamite securely in place
  inside the attach6 case. Close to it be fastened the wooden clothespin
  and the battery. The battery would fire the charge. The clothespin was
  the
              AIRPORT          115

 switch which, at the proper time, would release the current from the
 battery.
  His hands were trembling. He could feel sweat, in rivulets, inside his
  shirt. With the blasting cap in place, one mistake, one slip, would blow
  himself, this room, and most ot the budding, apart, here and now.
  He held his breath as he connected a second wire from the blasting cap
  and dynamite to one side of the clothespin.
  He waited, aware of his heart pounding, using a handkerchief to wipe
  moisture from his hands. His nerves, his senses, were on edge. Beneath
  him, as he sat on the bed, he could feet the thin, lumpy mattress. The
  decrepit iron bedstead screeched a protest as he moved.
  He resumed working. With exquisite caution, he connected another wire.
  Now, only the square inch of clear plastic was preventing the passage of
  an electric current and thereby an explosion.
  The plastic, less than a sixteenth of an inch thick, had a small hole
  near its outer edge. D. 0. Guerrero took the last item left on the
  bed-the string-and passed one end through the hole in the plastic, then
  tied it securely, being cautious not to move the plastic. The other end
  of the string he pushed through an inconspicuous hole, already drilled,
  which went through to the outside of the attacb6 case, emerging under the
  carrying handle. Leaving the string fairly loose inside the case, on the
  outside he tied a second knot, large enough to prevent the string from
  slipping back. Finally-also on the outside-he made a finger-size loop,
  like a miniature bangman's noose, and cut off the surplus string.
 And that was it.
  A finger through the loop, a tug on the string! Electric current would
  flow, and the explosion would be instant, devastating, final, for
  wbornever or whatever was nearby.
  Now that it was done, Guerrero relaxed and ]it a cigarette. He smiled
  sardonically as be reflected again on how much more complicated the publ
  ic-incl u ding writers of detective fiction-imagined the manufacture of
  a bomb to be. In stories he bad read there were
 116          AIRPORT

 always elaborate mechanisms, clocks, fuses, which ticked or hissed or
 spluttered, and which could be circumvented if immersed in water. In
 reality, no complications were required-only the simple, homely components
 he had just put together. Nor could anything stop the detonation of his
 kind of bomb-neither water, bullets, nor bravery-once the string was
 pulled.
  Holding the cigarette between his lips, and squinting through its smoke,
  D. 0. Guerrero put some papers carefully into the attach6 case, covering
  the dynamite, clothespin, wires, battery, and string. He made sure the
  papers would not move around, but that the string could move freely under
  them. Even if he opened the case for any reason, its contents would
  appear innocent. He closed the case and locked it.
  He checked the cheap alarm clock beside the bed. It was a few minutes
  after 8 P.m., a little less than two hours to flight departure time. Time
  to go. He would take the subway uptown to the airline terminal, then
  board an airport bus. He had just enough money left for that, and to buy
  the flight insurance policy. The thought reminded him that he must allow
  sufficient time at the airport to get insurance. He, pulled on his
  topcoat quickly, checking that the ticket to Rome was still in the inside
  pocket.
  He unlocked the bedroom door and went into the mean, shabby living room,
  taking the attach6 case with him, holding it gingerly.
  One final thing to do! A note for Inez. He found a scrap of paper and a
  pencil and, after thinking for several seconds, wrote:

  I won't be home for a few days. I'm going away. I expect to have some
  good news soon which will surprise you.

 He signed it D.O.
  For a moment he hesitated, softening. It wasn't much of a note to mark
  the end of eighteen years of marriage. Then be decided it would have to
  do; it would be a mistake to say too much. Afterward, even without
             AIRPORT           117

 wreckage from Flight Two, investigators would put the passenger list under
 a microscope. The note, as well as all other papers he had left, would be
 examined minutely.
  He put the note on a table where Inez would be sure to see it.
  As he went d ownstairs D. 0. Guerrero could hear voices, and a jukebox
  playing, from the greasy-spoon lunch counter. He turned up the collar of
  his topcoat, with the other hand holding the attach6 case ti-hfly. Under
  the carrying handle of the case, the loop of string like a hang
      gman's noose was close to his curled fingers.
  Outside, as he left the South Side building and headed for the subway, it
  was still snowing.
   PART TWO

 8:30 P.M.-11 P.M. (CST)
               1

 Once more, Joe Patroni returned to the warmth of his car and telephoned
 the airport. The TWA maintenance chief reported that the road between
 himself and the airport was stiH blocked by the traffic accident which had
 delayed him, but the chances of getting through soon looked good. Was the
 A6reo-Mexican 707, he inquired, still stuck in mud out on the airfield?
 Yes, he was informed, it was; furthermore, every few minutes, everyone
 concerned was calling TWA to ask where he was, and how much longer he
 would be, because his help was needed urgently.
  Without waiting to warm himself fully, Patroni left the car and liurried
  back down the highway, through the still faLling snow and deep slush
  underfoot, to where the accident had occurred.
  At the moment, the scene around the wrecked tractor-trailer transport
  looked like a staged disaster for a wide screen movie. The mammoth
  vehicle still lay on its side, blocking all four traffic lanes. By now
  it was completely snow covered and, with none of its wheels touching
  ground, seemed like a dead, rolled-over dinosaur. Floodlights and flares,
  aided by the whiteness of the snow, made the setting seem like day. The
  floodlights were on the three tow trucks which Patroni had urged sending
  for, and all had now arrived. The brilliant red flares had been planted
  by state police, of whom several more had appeared, and it seemed that
  when a

               121
 122          AIRPORT

 state trooper lacked something to do, he lit another flare. As a result, the
 display of pyrotechnics was worthy of the Fourth of July.
  The arrival of a TV camera crew, a few minutes earlier, had heightened the
  stage effect. The self-important crew had come with blaring horn and
  illegal flashing beacon, driving down a shoulder of the road in a maroon
  station wagon blazoned WSHT. Typically, the four young men who comprised
  the TV crew had taken over as if the entire event had been arranged for
  their convenience, and all further developments could now await th6r
  pleasure. Several state troopers, having ignored the illegal beacon on the
  station wagon, were engaged in waving the two trucks from their present
  positions into new ones, as the TV men directed.
  Before he left to make his telephone call, Joe Patroni had carefully coaxed
  the two trucks into locations which would give them the best leverage,
  together, to move the disabled tractor-trailer. As he left, the truck
  drivers and helpers were connecting heavy chains which he knew would take
  several more minutes to secure. The state police had been glad of his aid,
  and a burly police lieutenant, by that time in charge at the scene, had
  told the tow truck drivers to take their instructions from Patroni. But
  now, incredibly, the chains were removed, except for one which a grinning
  tow truck operator was handling as photofloods and a portable TV camera fo-
  cused on him.
  Behind the camera and lights a crowd of people, even larger than before,
  had assembled from other blocked vehicles. Most were watching the TV
  filming interestedly, their earlier impatience and the cold bleak misery of
  the night apparently forgotten for the moment.
  A sudden gust of wind slapped icy wet snow into Joe Patroni's face. Too
  late, his hand went to the neck of his parka. He felt some of the snow
  slide in, penetrate his shirt, and soak him miserably. Ignoring the
  discomfort, he strode toward the state police lieutenant and demanded, "Who
  in hell changed the trucks? The way they're lined now, you couldn't move a
  peck of coondirt. All they'll do is pull each other."
              AIRPORT          123

  "I know, Mister." The lieutenant, tall, broad-shouldered, and towering
  above the short, stocky figure of Patroni, appeared fleetingly
  embarrassed. "But the TV guys wanted a better shot. They're from a local
  station, and it's for the news tonight-all about the storm. Excuse me."
  One of the television men-himself huddled into a heavy coat-was beckoning
  the lieutenant into the filming. The lieutenant, head up, and ignoring
  the falling snow, walked with brisk authority toward the tow truck which
  was the center of the film shot. Two state troopers followed. The
  lieutenant, being careful to keep his face toward the camera, began
  giving instructions, with gestures, to the tow truck operator,
  instructions which were largely meaningless, but on screen would look
  impressive.
  The maintenance chief, remembering his need to get to the airport
  speedily, felt his anger rise. He braced himself to race out, grab the
  TV camera and lights, and smash them all. He could do it, too;
  instinctively his muscles tightened, his breathing quickened. Then, with
  an effort, he controlled himself.
  A trait of character of Joe Patroni's was a white-hot, violent temper;
  fortunately the violent part was not easily set off, but once it was, all
  reason and logic deserted him. The exercise of control over his temper
  was something he had tried to learn through his years of manhood. He had
  not always succeeded, though nowadays a single memory helped.
  On one occasion he had failed to have control. The result, forever after,
  haunted him.
  In the Army Air Forces of World War 11, Joe Patroni had been a
  redoubtable amateur boxer. He fought as a middleweight and, at one point,
  came within sight of the Air Forces championship, within his division,
  of the European Theater.
  In a bout staged in England shortly before the Normandy invasion, he had
  been matched against a crew chief named Terry O'Hale, a tough, tough
  Bostonian with a reputation for meanness in the ring, as well as out of
  it, Joe Patroni, then a young Pfc. aviation
 124          AIRPORT

 mechanic, knew O'Hale and disliked him. The dislike would not have
 mattered if O'Hale, as a calculated part of his ring technique, had not
 whispered constantly, "You greasy dago wop ... Whyn't you fighting for the
 other side, you mother lovin' Eytie? . . . You cheer when they shoot our
 ships down, dago boy?" and other pleasantries. Patroni had seen the gambit
 for what it was -an attempt to get him rattled-and ignored it until O'Hale
 landed two low blows near the groin in swift succession, which the
 referee, circling behind, did not observe.
  The combination of insults, foul blows, and excruciating pain, produced
  the anger which Patroni's opponent had counted on. What he did not count
  on was that Joe Patroni would deliver an onslaught so swift, savage, and
  utterly without mercy that O'Hale went down before it and, after being
  counted out, was pronounced dead.
  Patroni was exonerated. Although the referee had not observed the low
  blows, others at ringside had. Even without them, Patroni had done no
  more than was expected-fought to the limit of his skill and strength.
  Only he was aware that for the space of seconds he had been berserk,
  insane. Alone and later, he faced the realization that even if he had
  known O'Hale was dying, he could not have stopped himself.
  In the end, he avoided the clich6 of abandoning fighting, or "hanging up
  his gloves for good," as the usual fiction sequence went. He had gone on
  fighting, employing in the ring the whole of his physical resource, not
  holding back, yet testing his own control to avoid crossing the hairline
  between reason and berserk savagery. He succeeded, and knew that he had,
  because there were tests of anger where reason struggled with the wild
  animal inside him-and reason won. Then, and only then, did Joe Patroni
  quit fighting for the remainder of his life.
  But control of anger did not mean dismissing it entirely. As the police
  lieutenant returned from camera range, Patroni confronted him heatedly.
  "You just blocked this road an extra twenty minutes. It took ten
              AIRPORT          125

 minutes to locate those trucks where they should be; it'll take another
 ten to get them back."
  As he spoke, there was the sound of a jet aircraft overhead-a reminder
  of the reason for Joe Patroni's haste.
  "Now listen, mister." The lieutenant's face suffused a deeper red than
  it already was from cold and wind. "Get through your head that I'm in
  charge here. We're glad to have help, including yours. But I'm the one
  who's making decisions."
 "Then make one now!11
 "I'll make what I'm. . ."
  "No!-you listen to me." Joe Patroni stood glaring, uninhibited by the
  policeman's bulk above him. Something of the maintenance chief's
  contained anger, and a hint of authority, made the lieutenant hesitate.
  "There's an emergency at the airport. I already explained it; and why I'm
  needed there." Patroni stabbed his glowing cigar through the air for
  emphasis. "Maybe other people have reasons for hightailing it out of here
  too, but mine's enough for now. There's a phone in my car. I can call my
  top brass, who'll call your brass, and before you know it, somcbody'll
  be on that radio of yours asking why you're polishing your TV image in-
  stead of doing the job you're here for. So make a decision, the way you
  said! Do I call in, or do we move?"
  The lieutenant glared wrathfully back at Joe Patroni. Briefly, the
  policeman seemed ready to vent his own anger, then decided otherwise. He
  swung his big body toward the TV crew. "Get all that crap out of here!
  You guys have had long enough."
  One of the television men called over his shoulder, "We'll just be a few
  minutes more, chief."
  In two strides the lieutenant was beside him. "You heard me! Right now!"
  The policeman leaned down, his face still fierce from the encounter with
  Patroni, and the TV man visibly jumped. "Okay, okay." He motioned hastily
  to the others and the lights on the portable camera went out.
  "Let's have those two trucks back the way they were!" The lieutenant
  began firing orders at the state
 126          AIRPORT

 troopers, Who Moved quickly to execute them. He returned to Joe Patroni
 and gestured to the overturned transport; it was clear that he had decided
 Patroni was more use as an ally than an antagonist. "Mister, you still
 think we have to drag this rig? You sure we can't get it upright?"
  "Only if you want to block this road till daylight. You'd have to unload
  the trader first, and if you do . . ."
  "I know, [ know! Forget it! We'll pull and shove now, and worry about
  damage later." The lieutenant gestured to the waiting line of traffic.
  "If you want to get moving right after, you'd better hustle your car out
  of line and move up front. You want an escort to the airport?"
 Patroni nodded appreciatively. "Thanks."
  Ten minutes later the last pindle tow hook snapped into place. Heavy
  chains from one tow truck were secured around the axles of the disabled
  transport tractor; a stout wire cable connected the chains to the tow
  truck w~nch. A second tow truck was connected to the toppled trailer. The
  third tow truck was behind the trailer, ready to push.
  The driver from the big transport unit, which, despite its overturning,
  was only partially damaged, groaned as he watched what was happening. "My
  bosses ain't gonna like this! That's a near-new rig. You're gonna tear
  it apart."
  "If we do," a young state trooper told him, "we'll be finishing what you
  started."
  "Wadda you care? Ain't nothing to you I just lost a good job," the driver
  grumbled back. "Maybe I should try for a soft touch next time-Re bein'
  a lousy cop."
  The trooper grinned. "Why not? You're already a lousy driver."
  "You figure we're ready?" the lieutenant asked Patroni.
  Joe Patroni nodded, He was crouching, observing the tautness of chains
  and cables. He cautioned, "Take it slow and easy. Get the cab section
  sliding first."
  The first tow truck began pulling with its winch; its wheels skidded on
  snow and the driver accelerated forward, keeping the tow chain straining.
  The overturned
             AIRPORT           127

 transport's front portion creaked, slid a foot or two with a protesting
 scream of metal, then stopped.
  Patroni motioned with his hand. "Keep it moving! And get the trailer
  started!"
  The chains and cable between the trailer axles and the second tow truck
  tightened. The third tow truck pushed against the trailer roof. The
  wheels of all three tow trucks skidded as they fought for purchase on the
  wet, packed snow. For another two feet the tractor and trailer, still
  coupled together, as they had been when they rolled over, moved sideways
  across the highway to an accompanying ragged cheer from the crowd of on-
  lookers. The TV camera was functioning again, its lights adding
  brightness to the scene.
  A wide, deep gash in the road showed where the big transport had been.
  The tractor cab and the body of the loaded trailer were taking
  punishment, the trailer roof beginning to angle as one side of the
  trailer dragged against the road. The price to be paid-no doubt by
  insurers--for reopening the highway quickly would be a steep one.
  Around the road blockage, two snowplows-one on either side like
  skirmishers-were attempting to clear as much as they could of the snow
  which had piled since the accident occurred. Everything and everyone, by
  this time, was snow covered, including Patroni, the lieutenant, state
  troopers, and all others in the open.
  The truck motors roared again. Smoke rose from tires, spinning on wet,
  packed snow. Slowly, ponderously, the overturned vehicle shifted a few
  inches, a few feet, then slid clear across to the far side of the road.
  Within seconds, instead of blocking four traffic lanes, it obstructed
  only one. It would be a simple matter now for the three tow trucks to
  nudge the tractor-trailer clear of the highway onto the shoulder beyond.
  State troopers were already moving flares, preparatory to untangling the
  monumental traffic jam which would probably occupy them for several hours
  to come. The sound, once again, of a jet aircraft overhead was a reminder
  to Joe Patron! that his principal business this night still lay
  elsewhere.
 128          AIRPORT

  The state police lieutenant took off his cap and shook the snow from it. He
  nodded to Patroni. "I guess it's your turn, mister."
  A patrol car, parked on a shoulder, was edging onto the highway. The
  lieutenant pointed to it. "Keep close up behind that car. I've told them
  you'll be following, and they've orders to get you to the airport fast."
  Joe Patroni nodded. As he climbed into his Buick Wildcat, the lieutenant
  called after him, "And mister ... Thanks!"

               2

 Captain Vernon Demerest stood back from the cupboard door he had opened, and
 emitted a long, low whistle.
  He was still in the kitchen of Gwen Meighen's apartment on Stewardess Row.
  Gwen had not yet appeared after her shower and, while waiting, he had made
  tea as she suggested. It was while looking for cups and saucers that he had
  opened the cupboard door.
  In front of him were four tightly packed shelves of bottles. All were
  miniature bottles of liquor-the ounce-and-a-half size which airlines served
  to passengers in flight. Most of the bottles had small airline labels above
  their brand names, and all were unopened. Making a quick calculation,
  Demerest estimated there were close to three hundred.
  He had seen airline liquor in stewardesses' apartments before, but never
  quite so much at one time.
  "We have some more stashed away in the bedroom," Gwen said brightly from
  behind him. "We've been saving them for a party. I think we've enough,
  don't you?"
 She had come into the kitchen quietly, and he turned.
             AIRPORT           129

 As always since the beginning of their affair, he found the first sight of
 her enchanting and refreshing. Unusual for one who never lacked confidence
 with women, he had at such moments a heady sense of wonder that he had ever
 possessed Gwen at all. She was in a trim uniform skirt and blouse which made
 her seem even younger than she was. Her eager, high-cheekboned face was
 tilted upward, her rich black hair lustrous under the kitchen lights. Gwen's
 deep dark eyes regarded him with smiling, frank approval. "You can kiss me
 hard," she said. "I haven't put on makeup yet."
  He smiled, her clear melodious English voice delighting him again. As girls
  from upper-crust British private schools somehow managed to do, Gwen had
  captured all that was best in English intonation and avoided the worst. At
  times, Vernon Dernerest encouraged Gwen to talk, merely for the joy of
  hearing her speak.
  Not talking now, they held each other tightly, her lips responding eagerly
  to his.
  After a minute or so, Gwen pushed herself away. "No!" she insisted firmly.
  "No, Vernon dear. Not here."
  "Why not? We've time enough." There was a thickness to Demerest's voice, a
  rough impatience.
  "Because I told you-1 want to talk, and we don't have time for both." Gwen
  rearranged her blouse which had parted company with the skirt.
  "Hell!" he grumbled. "You bring me to the boil, and then . . . Oh, all
  right; I'll wait till Naples." He kissed her more gently. "All the way to
  Europe you can think of me up there on the flight deck, turned to
  'simmer."'
  "I'll bring you to the boil again. I promise." She laughed, and leaning
  close against him, passed her long slim fingers through his hair and around
  his face.
 He groaned. "My God!-you're doing it right now."
  "Then that's enough." Gwen took his hands, which were around her waist, and
  pushed them resolutely from her. Turning away, she moved to close the
  cupboard he bad been looking into.
 "Hey, wait a minute. What about all those?" Dem- 130          AIRPORT

 erest pointed to the miniature liquor bottles with their airline labels.
  "Those?" Gwen surveyed the four crowded shelves, her eyebrows arched, then
  switched to an expression of injured innocence. "They're just a few little
  old leftovers that passengers didn't want. Surely, Captain, sir, you're not
  going to report me for possession of leftovers."
 He said skeptically, "That many?"
  "Of course." Gwen picked up a bottle of Beefeater gin, put it down and
  inspected a Canadian Club whisky. "One nice thing about airlines is, they
  always buy the best brands. Care for one now?"
 He shook his head. "You know better than that."
  "Yes, I do; but you shouldn't sound so disapproving."
 "I just don't want you to get caught."
  "Nobody gets caught, and almost everybody does it. Look-every first class
  passenger is entitled to two of these little bottles, but some passengers
  use only one, and there are always others who won't have any."
 "The rules say you turn back all the unused ones."
  "Oh, for heaven's sake! So we do-a couple for appearances, but the rest the
  girls divide between them. The same thing goes for wine that's left over."
  Gwen giggled. "We always like a passenger who asks for more wine near the
  end of a trip. That way, we can officially open a fresh bottle, pour off
  one glass . .
 "I know. And take the rest home?"
  "You want to see?" Gwen opened another cupboard door. Inside were a dozen
  filled wine bottles.
 Demerest grinned. "I'll be damned."
  "This isn't all mine. My roommate and one of the girls next door have been
  saving theirs for the party we're planning." She took his arm. "You'll
  come, won't you?"
 "If I'm invited, I guess."
 Gwen closed both cupboard doors. "You will be."
  They sat down in the kitchen, and she poured the tea he had made. He
  watched admiringly while she did it. Gwen had a way of making even a casual
  session like this seem an occasion.
             AIRPORT           131

  He noticed With amusement that she produced cups from a pile in another
  cupboard, all bearing Trans America insignia. They were the kind the
  airline used in flight. He supposed be should not have been stuffy about
  the airline liquor bottles; after all, stewardess "perks" were nothing
  new. It was just that the size of the hoard amazed him.
  All airline stewardesses, he was aware, discovered early in their careers
  that a little husbandry in airplane galleys could relieve their cost of
  living at home. Stewardesses learned to board their flights with personal
  hand baggage which was partially empty, using the space for surplus
  food-always of highest quality, since airlines purchased nothing but the
  best. A Thermos jug, brought aboard empty, was useful for carrying off
  spare liquids -cream or even decanted champagne. If a stewardess was
  really enterprising, Demerest was once assured, she could cut her weekly
  grocery bill in half. Only on international flights where, by law, all
  food-untoucbed or otherwise-was incinerated immediately after landing,
  were the aii k more cautious.
  All this activity was strictly forbidden by regulations of all
  airlines-but it still went on.
  Another thing stewardesses learned was that no inventory check of
  removable cabin equipment was ever made at the termination of a flight.
  One reason was that airlines simply didn't have time; another, it was
  cheaper to accept some losses than make a fuss about them. Because of
  this, many stewardesses managed to acquire home furnishings-blankets,
  pillows, towels, linen napkins, glasses, silverware-in surprising
  quantity, and Vernon Dernerest had been in stewardess nests where most
  items used in daily living seemed to have come from airline sources.
  Gwen broke in on his thoughts. "What I was going to tell you, Vernon, is
  that I'm pregnant."
  It was said so casually that at first the words failed to register. He
  reacted blankly. "You're what?"
 "Pregnant-p-r-e-g-n ...
  He snapped irritably, "I know bow to spell it." His mind wasitill
  groping. "Are you sure?"
 132          AIRPORT

  Gwen laughed-her attractive silvery laugh-and sipped her tea. He sensed'she
  was making fun of him. He was also aware that she had never looked more
  lovely and desirable than at this moment.
  "That lire you just said, darling," she assured him, "is an old clich6. In
  every book I've ever read where there's a scene like this, the man asks,
  'Are you sureT "
  "Well, goddammit, Gwen!" His voice rose. "Are you?"
  "Of course. Or I wouldn't be telling you now." She motioned to the cup in
  front of him. "More tea?"
 "No!"
  "What happened," Gwen said calmly, "is perfectly simple. On that layover we
  had in San Francisco . . . you remember?-we stayed at that gorgeous hotel
  on Nob Hill; the one with the view. What was it called?"
 "The Fairmont. Yes, I remember. Go on."
  "Well, I'm afraid I was careless. I'd quit taking pills because they were
  making me overweight; then I thought I didn't need any other precautions
  that day, but it turned out I was wrong. Anyway, because 1 was careless,
  now I have a teensy-weensy little Vernon Demerest inside me who's going to
  get bigger and bigger."
  There was a silence, then he said awkwardly, "I suppose I shouldn't ask
  this . . ."
  She interrupted. "Yes, you should. You're entitled to ask." Gwen's deep
  dark eyes regarded him with open honesty. "What you want to know is, has
  there been anyone else, and am I positive it's you? Right?"
 "Look, Gwen. . ."
  She reached out to touch his hand. "You don't have to be ashamed of asking.
  I'd ask too, if things were the other way around."
 He gestured unhappily. "Forget it. I'm sorry."
  "But I want to tell you." She was speaking more hurriedly now, a shade less
  confidently. "There hasn't been anybody else; there couldn't be. You see .
  . . I happen to love you." For the first time her eyes were lowered. She
  went on, "I think I did. . . I know I did ... love you, I mean-even before
  that time we had in San Francisco. When I've thought about it, I've been
  glad of
             AIRPORT           133

 that, because you ought to love someone if you're to have his baby, don't
 you think so?"
  " Listen to me, Gwen." He covered her hands with his own. Vernon Demerest's
  hands were strong and sensitive, accustomed to responsibility and control,
  yet capable of precision and gentleness. They were gentle now. Women he
  cared about always had that effect on him, in contrast to the couth
  brusqueness with which he dealt with men. "We have to do some serious
  talking, and make some plans." Now that the first surprise was over, his
  thoughts were becoming orderly. It was perfectly clear what needed to be
  done next.
  "You don't have to do anything." Gwen's head came up; her voice was under
  control. "And you can stop wondering whether I'm going to be difficult, or
  whether I'll make things awkward for you. I won't. I knew what I was
  getting into; that there was the chance this would happen. I didn't really
  expect it to, but it has. I had to tell you tonight because the baby's
  yours; it's part of you; you ought to know. Now you do, I'm also telling
  you you don't have to worry. I intend to work things out myself."
  "Don't be ridiculous; of course I'll help. You don't imagine I'd walk away
  and ignore the whole bit." The essential thing, he realized, was speed; the
  trick with unwanted fetuses was to get the little beggars early. He
  wondered if Gwen had any religious scruples about abortions. She had never
  mentioned having a religion, but sometimes the most -unlikely people were
  devout. He asked her , "Are you Catholic?"
 "No. 11

  Well, he reflected, that helped. Maybe, then, a quick flight to Sweden
  would be the thing; a few days there was all Gwen would need. Trans America
  would cooperate, as airlines always did, providing they were not officially
  involved-the word "abortion" could be hinted at, but must never be
  mentioned. That way, Gwen could fly deadhead on a Trans America flight to
  Paris, then go by Air France to Stockholm on a reciprocal employee pass. Of
  course, even when she got to Sweden, the medical fees would still be
  damnably ex-
   134          AIRPORT

 pensive; tbcre was a jest among airline people that the Swedes took their
 overseas abortion customers to the clinic and the cleaners at the same time.
 The whole thing was cheaper in Japan, of course. Lots of airline
 stewardesses flew to Tokyo and got abortions there for fifty dollars. The
 abortions were supposed to be therapeutic, but Demerest mistrusted them;
 Sweden-or Switzerland-were more reliable. He had once declared: when he got
 a stewardess pregnant, she went first class.
  From his own point of view, it was a bloody nuisance that Gwen had got a
  bun in the oven at this particular time, just when he was building an
  extension on his house which, be remembered gloomily, had already gone over
  budget. Oh well, he would have to sell some stock-General Dynamics,
  probably; he had a nice capital gain there, and it was about time to take
  a profit. He would call his broker right after getting back from Rome-and
  Naples.
 He asked, "You're still coming to Naples with me?"
  "Of course; I've been looking for-ward to it. Besides, I bought a new
  negligee. You'll see it tomorrow night."
  He stood up from the table and grinned. "You're a shameless hussy."
  "A shameless pregnant hussy who shamelessly loves you. Do you love me?"
  She came to him, and he kissed her mouth, face, and an ear. He probed her
  pinna with his tongue, felt her arms tighten in response, then whispered,
  "Yes, I love you." At the moment, he reflected, it was true.
 ,'Vernon, dear."
 "Yes?"
  Her check was soft against his. Her voice came, muffled, from his shoulder.
  "I mean what I said. You don't have to help me. But if you really want to,
  that's different."
  "I want to." He decided he would sound her out about an abortion, on their
  way to the airport.
  Gwen disengaged herself and glanced at her watch; it was 8:20. "It's time,
  Captain, sir. We'd better go."
             AIRPORT           135

  "I guess you know you really don't have to worry," Vernon Demerest said to
  Gwen as they drove. "Airlines are used to having their unmarried
  stewardesses get pregnant. It happens all the time. The last report I read,
  the national airline average was ten percent, per year."
  Their discussion, he noted approvingly, was becoming increasingly
  matter-of-fact. Good!-it was important to steer Gwen away from any
  emotional nonsense about this baby of hers. If she did become emotional,
  Demerest knew, all sorts of awkward things could happen, impeding
  commonsense.
  He was handling the Mercedes carefully, with the delicate yet firm touch
  which was second nature to him when controlling any piece of machinery,
  including a car or airplane. The suburban streets, which were newly cleared
  when he drove from the airport to Gwen's apartment, were thickly
  snow-covered again. Snow was still coming down continuously, and there were
  deepening drifts in wind-exposed places, away from the shelter of
  buildings. Captain Demerest warily skirted the larger drifts. He had no
  intention of getting stuck nor did he even want to get out of the car until
  the shelter of the enclosed Trans America parking lot was reached.
  Curled into the leather bucket seat beside him, Gwen said incredulously,
  "Is that really true-that every year, ten out of every hundred stewardesses
  get pregnant?"
  He assured her, "It varies slightly each year, but it's usually pretty
  close. Oh, the pill has changed things a bit, but the way I hear it, not as
  much as you'd expect. As a union officer I have access to that kind of
  information."
  He waited for Gwen to comment. When she made none, he went on, "What you
  have to remember is that airline stewardesses are mostly young girls, from
  the country, or modest city homes. They've had a quiet upbringing, an
  average life. Suddenly, they have a glamour job; they travel, meet
  interesting people, stay in the best hotels. It's their first taste of la
  dolce vita." He grinned. "Once in a while that first taste leaves some
  sediment in the glass."
 "That's a rotten thing to say!" For the first time since
 136          AIRPORT

 he had known her, Gwen's temper flared. She said indignantly, "You sound so
 superior; just like a man. If I have any sediment in my glass, or in me, let
 me remind you that it's yours, and even if we didn't plan to leave it there,
 I think I'd find a better name for it than that. Also, if you're lumping me
 together with all those girls you talked about from the country and 'modest
 city homes,' I don't like that one damn bit either."
  There was heightened color in Gwen's cheeks; her eyes flashed angrily.
 "Hey!" he said. "I like your spirit."
  "Well, keep on saying things like you did just now, and you'll see more of
  it."
 "Was I that bad?"
 "You were insufferable."
  "Then I'm sorry." Dernerest slowed the car and stopped at a traffic light
  which shone with myriad red reflections through the falling snow. They
  waited in silence until, with Christmas card effect, the color winked to
  green. When they were moving again, be said carefully, "I didn't mean to
  lump you with anybody, because you're an exception. You're a sophisticate
  who got careless, You said you did, yourself. I guess we were both
  careless."
  "All right." Gwen's anger was dissipating. "But don't ever put me in
  bunches. I'm me; no one else."
  They were quiet for several moments, then Gwen said thoughtfully, "I
  suppose we could call him that."
 "Call who what?"
  "You made me remember what I said earlier-about a little Vernon Dernerest
  inside me. If we had a boy, we could call him Vernon Demerest, Junior, the
  way Americans do."
He had never cared much for his own name. Now he
 began to say, "I wouldn't want my sonthen
 stopped. This was dangerous ground.
  "What I started to say, Gwen, was that airlines are used to this kind of
  thing. You know about the ThreePoint Pregnancy Program?"
 She said ,hortly, "Yes."
 It was natural that Gwen did. Most stewardesses were
             AIRPORT           137

 aware of what airlines would do for them if they became pregnant, providing
 the stewardess herself agreed to certain conditions. Within Trans America
 the system was referred to familiarly as the "3-PPP." Other airlines used
 differing names, and arrangements varied slightly, but the principle was the
 same.
  "I've known girls who've used the 3-PPP," Gwen said. "I didn't think I'd
  ever need to."
  "Most of the others didn't, I guess." He added: "But you wouldn't need to
  worry. It isn't something that airlines advertise, and it all works
  quietly. How are we for time?"
  Gwen held her wrist watch under the light of the dash. "We're okay."
  He swung the Mercedes into a center lane carefully, judging his traction on
  the wet, snowy surface, and passed a lumbering utilities truck. Several
  men, probably an emergency crew, were clinging to the sides of the truck as
  it moved along. They looked weary, wet, and miserable. Demerest wondered
  what the men's reaction would be if they knew that he and Gwen would be
  under warm Neapolitan sunshine only hours from now.
  "I don't know," Gwen said; "I don't know if I could ever do it."
  Like Demerest, Gwen knew the reasoning of management which lay behind
  airline pregnancy programs. No airline liked losing stewardesses for any
  reason. Their training was expensive; a qualified stewardess represented a
  big investment. Another thing: the right kind of girls, with good looks,
  style, and personality, were hard to find.
  The way the programs worked was practical and simple. If a stewardess
  became pregnant, and did not plan to be married, obviously she could return
  to her job when her pregnancy was over, and usually her airline would be
  delighted to have her back. So, the arrangement was, she received official
  leave of absence, with her job seniority protected. As to her personal
  welfare, airline personnel departments had special sections which, among
  other things, would help make medical or nursing home arrangements, either
  where a
 138          AIRPORT

 girl lived or at some distant point, whichever she preferred. The airline
 helped psychologically, too, by letting the girl know that someone cared
 about her, and was looking out for her interest. A loan of money could
 sometimes be arranged. Afterward, if a stewardess who had had her child
 was diffident about returning to her original base, she would be quietly
 transferred to a new one of her own choosing.
  In return for all this, the airline asked three assurances from the
  stewardess-hence the Three-Point Pregnancy Program.
  First, the girl must keep the airline personnel department informed of
  her whereabouts at all times during her pregnancy.
  Second, she must agree that her baby be surrendered for adoption
  immediately after birth. The girl would never know the baby's adoptive
  parents; thus the child would pass out of her life entirely. However, the
  airline guaranteed that proper adoption procedures would be followed,
  with the baby being placed in a good home.
  Third-at the outset of the three-point program the stewardess must inform
  the airline of the name of the child's father. When she had done so, a
  representative from Personnel--experienced in such situationspromptly
  sought out the father with the objective of obtaining financial support
  for the girl. What the personnel man tried to obtain was a promise, in
  writing, of enough money to cover medical and nursing home expenses and,
  if possible, some or all of the stewardess's lost wages. Airlines
  preferred such arrangements to be amiable and discreet. If they had to,
  though, they could get tough, using their considerable corporate
  influence to bring pressure on non-cooperating individuals.
  It was seldom necessary to be tough where the father of a stewardess's
  baby was a flying crew member-a captain, or first or second officer. In
  such cases, gentle company suasion, plus the father's wish to keep the
  whole thing quiet, were usually enough. As to keeping quiet, the company
  obliged. Temporary support payments could be made in any reasonable way,
  or, if pre-
               AIRPORT           139

 fcrred, the airline made regular deductions from the employee's 'pay checks.
 Just as considerately, to avoid awkward questions at home, such deductions
 appeared under the heading: "personal misc."
  All money received by these means was paid, in its entirety, to the
  pregnant stewardess. The airline deducted nothing for its own costs.
  "The whole point about the program," Dernerest said, "is that you're not
  alone, and there's all kinds of help."
  He had been careful of one tbing-to avoid any reference, so far, to
  abortion. That was a separate subject because no airline would, or could,
  become directly involved in abortion arrangements. Advice on the subject
  was frequently given unofficially to those who sought it-by stewardess
  super-visors who learned, through experience of others, how such
  arrangements could be made. Their objective, if a girl was determined on
  abortion, was to insure its performance under safe medical conditions,
  avoiding at all costs the dangerous and disreputable practitioners whom
  desperate people sometimes resorted to.
  Gwen regarded her companion curiously. "Tell me one thing. How is it you
  know so much about all this?"
 "I told you, I'm a union officer. . ."
  "You're part of the ALPA's for pilots. You don't have anything to do with
  stewardesses-not in that way, anyhow."
 "Maybe not directly."
  "Vernon, this has happened to you before ... getting a stewardess pregnant
  ... Vernon, hasn't it?"
 He nodded reluctantly. "Yes."
  "It must come pretty easily to you, knocking up stewardesses-those gullible
  country girls you were talking about. Or were they mostly from 'modest city
  homes'?" Gwen's voice was bitter. "How many have there been altogether','
  Two dozen, a dozen? Just give me an idea in round figures
 He sighed. One; only one."
  He had been incredibly lucky, of course. It could have been many more, but
  his answer was the truth.
 140          AIRPORT

 Well ... almost the truth; there was that other time, and the miscarriage,
 but that shouldn't count.
  Outside the car, traffic density was increasing as they neared the
  airport, now less than a quarter mile away. The bright lights of the
  great terminal, though dimmed tonight by snow, still fffled the sky.
  Gwen said, "The other girl who got pregnant. I don't want to know her
  name..
 "I wouldn't tell you."
  "Did she use the thingummy-tbe three-point program?"
 "Yes.
 "Did you help her?"
  He answered impatiently, "I said earlier-wbat kind of a man do you think
  I am? Of course I helped her. If you must know, the company made
  deductions from my pay checks. That's how I knew about the way it's
  done."
 Gwen smiled. " 'Personal misc.T
 "Yes.,,

 "Did your wife ever know?"
 He hesitated before answering. "No."
 "What happened to the baby?"
 "It was adopted."
 "What was it?"
 "Just a baby."
  "You know perfectly well what I mean. Was it a boy or a girl?"
 "A girl, I think."
 "You think."
 "I know. It was a girl."
  Gwen's questioning made him vaguely uncomfortable. It revived memories
  be would as soon forget.
  They were silent as Vernon Dernerest swung the Mercedes into the
  airport's wide and imposing main entry. High above the entry, soaring and
  floodlighted, were the futuristic parabolic arches-acclaimed achievement
  of a world-wide design contest-symbolizing, so it was said, the noble
  dreams of aviation. Ahead was an impressive, serpentine complex of roads,
  interchanges, flyovers, and tunnels, designed to keep the airport's
  unceasing vehic-
                AIRPORT          141

 ular traffic flowing at high speed, though tonight the elfects of the
 three-day storm were makin,--z progress slower than usual. Great mounds of
 snow were occupying normally usable road space. Snowplows and dump trucks,
 trying to keep remaining areas open, were adding their own confusion.
  After several brief hold-ups, Demerest turned onto the service road which
  would bring them to the Trans America main hangar area, where they would
  leave the car and take a crew bus to the terminal.
 Gwen stirred beside him. "Vernon."
  'Yes.
  "Thank you for being honest with me." She reached out touching his nearer
  hand on the steering wheel. "I'll be all right. I expect it was just a bit
  much, all at once. And I do want to go with you to Naples."
  He nodded and smiled, then took his hand off the wheel and clasped Gwen's
  tightly. "We'll have a great time, and I promise we'll both remember it."
  He would do his best, he decided, to ensure the promise came true. For
  himself, it would not be difficult. He had been more attracted to Gwen, had
  felt more loving in her company, and closer in spirit, than with anyone
  else he remembered. If it were not for his marriage . . . He wondered, not
  for the first time, about breaking with Sarah, and marrying Gwen. Then he
  pushed the thought away. He had known too many others of his profession who
  had suffered upheavalpilots who forsook wives of many years, for younger
  women. More often than not, all the men had in the end were shattered hopes
  and heavy alimony.
  Sometime during their trip, though, either in Rome or Naples, he must have
  another serious discussion with Gwen. Their talk, so far, had not gone
  exactly as he would have liked, nor had the question of an abortion yet
  been raised.
  Meanwhile-the thought of Rome reminded himthere was the more immediate
  matter of his command of Trans America Flight Two.
 142          AIRPORT

               3

 The key was to room 224 of the O'Hagan Inn.
  In the semidarkened locker area adjoining the air traffic control radar
  room, Keith Bakersfeld realized he had been staring at the key and its
  identifying plastic tag for several minutes. Or had it been seconds only?
  It might have been. Just lately, like so much else, the passage of time
  seemed inconstant and disoriented. Sometimes at home recently, Natalie had
  found him standing quite still, looking into nothingness. And when she had
  asked, with concern, Why are you there?, only then had he become awakened
  to where he was, and had resumed movement and conscious thinking.
  What had happened, he supposed-then and a moment ago-was that his worn,
  weary mind had switched itself off. Somewhere inside the brain's intrica-
  cies--of blood vessels, sinew, stored thought, and emotion-was a tiny
  switch, a self-defense mechanism like a thermal cutout in an electric
  motor, which worked when the motor was running too hot and needed to be
  saved from burning itself out. The difference, though, between a motor and
  a human brain, was that a motor stayed out of action if it needed to.
 A brain would not.
  The floodlights outside, on the face of the control tower, still reflected
  enough light inward through the locker room's single window for Keith to
  see. Not that he needed to see. Seated on one of the wooden benches, the
  sandwiches Natalie had made, untouched, beside him, he was doing nothing
  more than holding the O'Hagan Inn key and thinking, reflecting on the par-
  adox of the human brain.
  A human brain could achieve soaring imagery, conceive poetry and
  radarscopes, create the Sistine Chapel and a supersonic Concord6. Yet a
  brain, tooholding memory and conscience-could be compelling,
              AIRPORT          143

 self-tormenting, never resting; so that only death could end its
 persecution.
  Death . . . with oblivion, forgetfulness; with rest at last.
  It was the reason that Keith Bakersfeld had decided on suicide tonight.
  He must go back soon to the radar room. There were still several hours
  of his shift remaining, and he had made a pact with himself to finish his
  air traffic control duty for tonight. He was not sure why, except that
  it seemed the right thing to do, and he had always tried to do the right
  thing, conscientiously. Perhaps being conscientious was a family trait;
  he and his brother Mel always seemed to have that much in common.
  Anyway, when the duty was done-his final obligation finished-he would be
  free to go to the O'Hagan Inn, where he had registered late this
  afternoon. Once there, without wasting time, he would take the forty
  Nembutal capsules-sixty grains in all-which were in a drugstore pillbox
  in his pocket. He had husbanded the capsules, a few at a time, over
  recent months. They bad been prescribed to give him sleep, and from each
  prescription which Natalie's druggist had delivered, he had carefully
  extracted half and hidden it. A few days ago he had gone to a library,
  checking a reference book on clinical toxicology to assure himself that
  the quantity of Nembutal he had was well in excess of a fatal dose.
  His present duty shift would end at midnight. Soon after, when he had
  taken the capsules, sleep would come quickly and with finality.
  He looked at his watch, holding its face toward the light from outside.
  It was almost nine o'clock. Should he return to the radar room now?
  No-stay a few minutes longer. When he went, he wanted to be calm, his
  nerves steady for whatever these last few hours of duty might contain.
  Keith Bakersfeld fingered the O'Hagan Inn key again. Room 224.
  It was strange about the coincidence of figures; that his roorn number
  tonight, allocated by chance, should have in it a "24." There were people
  who believed in
 144          AIRPORT

 that kind of thing-numerology; the occult significance of numbers. Keith
 didn't, though if he did, those third and last figures, prefaced by a "T'
 could be taken to mean 24 for the second time.
  The first 24 had been a date, a year and a half ago. Keith's eyes misted,
  as they had so many times before, when he remembered. The date was
  seared-with selfreproach and anguish-in his memory. It was the wellspring
  of his darksome spirit, his utter desolation. It was the reason he would
  end his life tonight.
  A summer's day; morning. Thursday, June the twenty-fourth.

  It was a (lay for poets, lovers, and color photographers; the kind of day
  which people stored up in their minds, to open like a scrapbook when they
  wanted to remember, years later, all that was best of any time and place.
  In Leesburg, Virginia, not far from historic Harpers Ferry, the sky was
  clear at dawn-CAVU, the weather reports said, which is aviation shorthand
  for 11 ceiling and visibility unlimited"; and conditions stayed that way,
  except for a few cotton-wool tufts of scattered cumulus by afternoon. The
  sun was warm, but not oppressive. A gentle breeze from the Blue Ridge Moun-
  tains carried the scent of honeysuckle.
  On his way to work that morning-driving to the Washington Air Route Traffic
  Control Center at Leesburg-Keith Bakersfeld had seen wild roses blooming.
  He thought of a line from Keats which he had learned in high school--"For
  Summer has o'erbrimmed It seemed appropriate to such a day.
  He had driven, as usual, across the Virginia border -from Adamstown,
  Maryland, where he and Natalie, with their two boys shared a pleasant
  rented home. The top of the Volkswagen convertible was down; he bad
  traveled without baste, enjoying the benevolence of air and sun, and when
  the familiar low, modern buildings of the Air Route Center came in sight,
  he had felt less tense than usual. Afterward, he wondered if that, in
  itself, had been a cause of the events which followed.
 Even inside the Operations Wing-thick-walled and
             AIRPORT           145

 windowless, where daylight never penetrated-Keith had an impression that
 the glory of the summer's day outside had somehow percolated inward. Among
 the seventy or more shirtsleeved controllers on duty there seemed a sense
 of lightness, in contrast to the pressuredriven earnestness with which
 work proceeded on most days of the year. One reason, perhaps, was that the
 traffic load was less than usual, due to the exceptionally clear weather.
 Many non-commercial flights-private, military, even a few airliners-were
 operating on VFR -"visual flight rules," or the see-and-be-seen method by
 which aircraft pilots kept track of their own progress through the air,
 without need to report by radio to ATC air route controllers.
  The Washington Air Route Center at Leesburg was a key control point. From
  its main operations room aH air traffic on airways over six eastern
  seaboard states was observed and directed. Added up, the control area
  came to more than a hundred thousand square miles. Within that area,
  whenever an aircraft which had filed an instrument flight plan left an
  airport, it came under Leesburg observation and control. It remained
  under that control either until its journey was complete or it passed out
  of the area. Aircraft coming into the area were banded over from other
  control centers, of which there were twenty across the continental United
  States. The Leesburg center was among the nation's busiest. It included
  the southern end of the "northeast corridor" which daily accommodated the
  world's heaviest concentration of air traffic.
  Oddly, Leesburg was distant from any airport, and forty miles from
  Washington, D.C., from which the Air Route Center took its name. The
  center itself was in Virginia countryside-a cluster of low, modem build-
  ings with a parking lot-and was surrounded on three sides by rolling
  farmland. Nearby was a small stream named Bull Run--its fame enshrined
  forever by two battles of the Civil War. Keith Bakersfeld had once gone
  to Bull Run after duty, reflecting on the strange and diametric contrast
  between Leesburg's past and present.
 This morning, despite awareness of the summer's day
 146          AIRPORT

 outside, everything in the spacious, cathedral-like main control room was
 operating as usual. The entire control area-larger than a football
 field-was, as always, dimly lighted to allow proper viewing of the several
 dozen radar screens, arranged in tiers and rows under overhanging
 canopies. The control room noise level was what any newcomer noticed
 first. From a flight data area, with great banks of computers, assorted
 electronic gear and automatic teletypes, arose the continuous whir and
 chatter of' machinery. Nearby, from dozens of positions where controllers
 sat, directing aerial traffic, came a ceaseless hum of voice radio
 exchanges on a host of frequencies. The machinery and human voices merged,
 producing a constant noise level which was all-pervading, yet strangely
 muted by acoustic, sound-absorbent walls and ceilings.
  Above the working level of the control room was an observation bridge,
  running the room's full width, where occasional visitors were brought to
  watch proceedings below. The control room activity looked, from this
  eyrie, not unlike that of a stock exchange. Controllers rarely glanced
  up at the bridge, being trained to ignore anything which might diminish
  concentration on their work, and since only a few especially privileged
  visitors ever made it to the control room floor, controllers and
  outsiders rarely met. Thus the work was not only high pressure, but also
  monastic-the last condition added to by the total absence of women.
  In an annex to the control room Keith slipped off his jacket, and came
  in wearing the crisp white shirt which was like a uniform for air traffic
  controllers. No one knew why controllers wore white shirts on duty; there
  was no rule about it, but most of them did. As he passed other control
  positions while heading for his own, a few colleagues wished him a
  friendly "good morning," and that was unusual too. Normally, the
  immediate sense of pressure on entering the control area made it
  customary to give a hurried nod or a brief "Hi! "-sometimes not even
  that.
  The control sector which Keith regularly worked comprised a segment of
  the Pittsburgh-Baltimore area.
             AIRPORT           147

 The sector was monitored by a team of three. Keith was radar contioller, his
 job to maintain contact with aircraft and to issue radio instructions. Two
 assistant controllers handled flight data and airport communications; a
 supervisor coordinated activities of the other three. Today, in addition,
 the team had a trainee controller whom Keith had been instructing, at
 intervals, over the past several weeks.
  Others of the team were drifting in at the same time as Keith Bakersfeld,
  taking position behind the men they were to relieve, and allowing a few
  minutes while they absorbed the "picture" in their minds. All through the
  big control room, at other positions, the same thing was happening.
  Standing at his own sector, behind the radar controller about to go ofT
  duty, Keith already felt his mental acuity sharpen, his speed of thinking
  consciously accelerate. For the next eight hours, except for two brief work
  breaks, his brain must continue to operate that way.
  Traffic, he observed, was averagely busy for the time of day, taking into
  account the widespread good weather. On the scope's dark surface, some
  fifteen pinpoints of bright green light-or "targets," as radarmen called
  them-indicated aircraft in the air. Allegheny had a Convair 440 at eight
  thousand feet, approaching Pittsburgh. Behind the Allegheny Right, at
  varying altitudes, was a National DC-8, an American Airlines 727, two
  private aircraft-a Lear jet and a Fairchild F-27-and another National, this
  time a prop-jet Electra. Several other flights, Keith noted, were due to
  come on the screen at any moment, both from other sectors and as a result
  of takeoffs from Friendship Airport, Baltimore. Going the opposite way,
  toward Baltimore, was a Delta DC-9, about to be taken over by Friendship
  approach control; behind this flight were a TWA, a Piedmont Airlines
  Martin, another private flight, two Uniteds, and a Mohawk. Height and
  distance separations of all airCraft were satisfactory, Keith observed,
  except that the two Uniteds heading for Baltimore were a little close. As
  if the controller still at the scope had read Keith's
 148          AIRPORT

 mind, he gave the second United a delaying diversionary course.
  "I have the picture," Keith said quietly. The other controller nodded and
  moved out.
  Keith's supervisor, Perry Yount, plugged in his headset above Keith's
  head and leaned over, making his own assessment of the traffic situation.
  Perry was a tall, lean Negro, a few years younger than Keith. He had a
  quick, retentive memory which could store a mass of flight data, then
  repeat it back, as a whole or in pieces, with computer accuracy. Perry
  was a comforting man to have around when there was trouble.
  Keith had already accepted several new flights and handed over others
  when the supervisor touched his shoulder. "Keith, I'm running two
  positions this shiftthis and the next one. We're a man short. You okay
  for a while?"
  Keith nodded. "Roger." He radioed a course correction to an Eastern 727,
  then motioned toward the trainee controller, George Wallace, who had
  slipped into a seat beside him. "I've got George to keep an eye on me.),
  "Okay." Perry Yount unplugged his headset and moved to the adjacent
  console. The same kind of thing had happened occasionally before, and was
  handled without ditliculty. Perry Yount and Keith had worked together for
  several years; each was aware that he could trust the other.
  Keith told the trainee beside him, "George, start getting the picture."
  George Wallace nodded and edged closer to the radarscope. He was in his
  mid-twenties, had been a trainee for almost two years; before that, he
  had served an enlistment in the U. S. Air Force. Wallace had already
  shown himself to have an alert, quick mind, plus the ability not to
  become rattled under tension. In one more week he would be a qualified
  controller, though for practical purposes he was fully trained now.
  Deliberately, Keith allowed the spacing between an American Airlines
  BAC-400 and a National 727 to become les-, than it should be; he was
  ready to transmit
             AIRPORT           149

 quick instructions if the closure became critical. George Wallace spotted
 the condition at once, and warned Keith, who corrected it.
  That kind of firsthand exercise was the only sure way the ability of a new
  controller could be gauged. Similarly, when a trainee was at the scope
  himself, and got into difficulties, he had to be given the chance to show
  resourcefulness and sort the situation out unaided. At such moments, the
  instructing controller was obliged to sit back, with clenched hands, and
  sweat. Someone had once described it as, "hanging on a brick wall by your
  fingernails." When to intervene or take over was a critical decision, not
  to be made too early or too late. If the instructor did take over, the
  trainee's confidence might be permanently undermined, and a potentially
  good controller lost. On the other hand, if an instructor failed to take
  over when he should, a ghastly mid-air collision could result.
  The risks involved, and extra mental pressures, were such that many
  controllers refused to take them. They pointed out that the task of
  teaching their work to others carried neither official recognition nor
  extra pay. Moreover, if anything went wrong, the instructing controller was
  wholly responsible. Why suffer so much strain and liability for nothing?
  Keith, however, had shown an aptitude as an instructor as well as patience
  in bringing trainees along. And although he, too, suffered and sweated at
  times, he did the job because he felt he should. At this moment, he took a
  personal pride in the way George Wallace had developed.
  Wallace said quietly again, "I'd turn United 284 right until you get
  altitude separation with Mohawk."
  Keith nodded agreement as he thumbed his microphone button. "United Flight
  284, from Washington center. Turn right, heading zero six zero."
  Promptly the reply crackled back. "Washington control, this is United 284.
  Roger; zero six zero." Miles distant, and high above in clear bright
  sunshine while passengers dozed or read, the powerful sleek jet would be
  easing intoL a smooth controlled turn. On the radar-
   150          AIRPORT

 scope, the bright green half inch wide blip which was United 284 began
 moving in a new direction.
  Below the control area, in a room devoted to rack upon rack of
  ponderously turning tape recorders, the exchange between ground and air
  had been recordedfor playback later if need arose. Every such conversa-
  tion, from each position in the control room, was recorded and stored.
  Periodically, some of the tapes were replayed and listened to critically
  by supervisors. If a procedure was wrong, a controller heard about it;
  yet no controller knew when a recording of his own might be selected for
  analysis. On a door of the tape-recorder room was the grimly humorous
  reminder, "Big Brother Is Listening."
 The morning progressed.
  Periodically, Perry Yount appeared. He was still overseeing two positions
  and stayed long enough to assess the current traffic situation. What he
  saw seemed to satisfy him, and he spent less time behind Keith than at
  the other position, where several problems seemed to be occurring. Around
  mid-morning the air traffic volume eased slightly; it would pick up again
  before midday. Soon after 10:30 A.m. Keith Bakersfeld and George Wallace
  exchanged positions. The trainee was now at the scope, Keith checking
  from alongside. There was no need, Keith found, for intervention; young
  Wallace was proving competent and alert. As far as was possible in the
  circumstances, Keith relaxed.
  At ten to eleven, Keith was aware of a need to visit the toilet. In
  recent months, he had had several bouts with intestinal flu; he had a
  suspicion that this was the beginning of another. He signaled Perry Yount
  and told him.
 The supervisor nodded. "Is George doing okay?"
  "Like a veteran." Keith said it loud enough so George could hear.
  "I'll hold things down," Perry said. "You're relieved, Keith."
 "Thanks."
  Keith signed the sector log sheet and noted his time of checking out.
  Perry scribbled an initial on the next
              AIRPORT          151

 line of the log, accepting responsibility for monitoring Wallace. In a few
 minutes time, when Keith returned, they would follow the same procedure.
  As Keith Bakersfeld left the control room, the supervisor was studying the
  scope, his han.d lightly on George Wallace's shoulder.
  The washroom Keith had gone to was on an upper level; a frosted-glass
  window admitted some of the brightness of the day outside. When Keith had
  finished, and freshened himself with a wash, he went to the window and
  opened it. He wondered if the weather was still as superb as when he had
  arrived earlier. It was.
  From the rear of the building into which the window was set, he could
  see-beyond a service area-green meadows, trees, and wild flowers. The heat
  was greater now. All around was a drowsy hum of insects.
  Keith stood looking out, aware of a reluctance to leave the cheerful
  sunlight and return to the control room's gloom. It occurred to him that
  lately he had had similar feelings at other times-too many times, perhaps;
  and he thought-if he was honest, it was not the gloom he minded so much,
  but the mental pressures. There was a time when the tensions and pressures
  of his job, unrelenting as they were, had never bothered him. Nowadays they
  did, and on occasions he had to force himself, consciously, to meet them.

  While Keith Bakersfeld was standing at the window, thinking, a Northwest
  Orient 727 jet, en route from Minneapolis-St. Paul, was nearing Washington,
  D.C. Within its cabin a stewardess was bending over an elderly male
  passenger. His face was ashen; he seemed unable to speak. The stewardess
  believed he had had, or was having, a heart attack. She hurried to the
  flight deck to inform the captain. Moments later, acting on the captain's
  orders, the Northwest first officer asked Washington Air Route Center for
  special clearance down, with priority handling to Washington National
  Airport.

  Keith wondered sometimes-as he was wondering now-how many more years he
  could force his occa-
   152          AIRPORT

 sionally weary mind to go on. He had been a controller for a decade and
 a half. He was thirty-eight.
  The depressing thing was-in this business you could be mentally drained,
  an old man, at age forty-five or fifty, yet honorable retirement was
  another ten or fifteen years away. For many air traffic controllers,
  those final years proved an all-too-grueling trail, whose end they failed
  to reach.
  Keith knew-as most controllers did-that strains on the human systems of
  those employed in air traffic control had long been recognized. Official
  flight surgeons' files bulged with medical evidence. Case histories,
  directly attributable to controllers' work, included hypertension, heart
  attacks, gastric ulcers, tachycardia, psychiatric breakdowns, plus a host
  of lesser ailments. Eminent, independent medics, in scholarly research
  studies, had confirmed such findings. In the words of one: "A controller
  will spend nervous, sleepless hours every night wondering how in the name
  of heaven he kept all those planes from running into each other. He
  managed not to cause a disaster today, but will he have the same luck
  tomorrow? After a while, something inside him-physical, mental,
  oftentimes both-inevitably breaks down."
  Armed with this knowledge, and more, the Federal Aviation Agency had
  urged Congress to allow air traffic controllers to retire at age fifty,
  or after twenty years of service. The twenty years, doctors declared,
  were equal to forty in most other jobs. The FAA warned legislators:
  public safety was involved; controllers, after more than twenty years of
  service, were potentially unsafe. Congress, Keith remembered, had ignored
  the warning and refused to act.
  Subsequently, a Presidential Commission also turned thumbs down on early
  retirement for controllers, and the FAA-then a presidential agency-had
  been told to cease and desist in its argument. Now, officially, it had.
  Privately, however-as Keith and others knew-Washington FAA officials were
  as convinced as ever; they predicted that the question would arise again,
  though
             AIRPORT           153

 only after an air disaster, or a series, involving wom-out controllers,
 followed by press and public furor.
  Keith's thoughts switched back to the countryside. It was glorious today;
  the fields inviting, even when viewed from a washroom window. He wished he
  could go out there and sleep in the sun. Well, he couldn't, and that was
  that. He supposed he had better get back to the control room. He would-in
  just a moment more.

  The Northwest Orient 727 had already started down, on authority from
  Washington Center. At lower altitudes, other flights were being hurriedly
  diverted, or ordered to orbit, safe distances away. A slanting hole,
  through which Northwest would continue descending, was being cleared in the
  growing midday traffic. Approach control at Washington National Airport had
  been alerted; its function would come shortly when it accepted the
  Northwest jet from Washington Center. At this moment, responsibility for
  the Northwest flight and other aircraft devolved on the sector team next to
  Keith's-the extra sector which the young Negro, Perry Yount, was
  supervising.
  Fifteen aircraft with combined speeds totaling seven thousand five hundred
  miles per hour were being juggled in an airspace a few miles wide. No
  airplane must come near another. The Northwest flight must be brought down,
  safely, through them all.
  Similar situations happened several times a day; in bad weather it could be
  several times an hour. Sometimes emergencies came together, so that
  controllers numbered them-emergency one, emergency two, emergency three.
  In the present situation, as always, Perry Yountquiet-spoken, cool, and
  capable-was responding with experienced skill. Working with others in the
  sector team, he was coordinating emergency procedurescalmly, level voiced,
  so that from his tone no bystander listening would be aware that an
  emergency existed. Other aircraft could not hear transmissions to the
  Northwest flight, which had been instructed to switch to a separate radio
  frequency.
 154          AIRPORT

  Everything was going well. The Northwest flight was steady on course,
  descending. In a few minutes, the emergency situation would be over.
  Amid the pressures, Perry Yount even found time to slip across to the
  adjoining position-which normally would have his undivided attention-to
  check George Wallace. Everything looked good, though Perry knew he would be
  easier in mind when Keith Bakersfeld was back. He glanced toward the
  control room door. No sign of Keith yet.

  Keith-still at the open window, still looking out at the Virginia
  countryside-was remembering Natalie. He sighed. Lately, there had been
  disagreements between them, triggered by his work. There were points of
  view which his wife could or would not see. Natalie was concerned about
  Keith's health. She wanted him to give up air traffic control; to quit, and
  choose some other occupation while some of his youth and most of his health
  remained. It had been a mistake, he realized now, to confide his doubts to
  Natalie, to describe what he had seen happen to other controllers whose
  work had made them prematurely old and ailing. Natalie had become alarmed,
  perhaps with reason. But there were considerations to giving up a job,
  walking away from years of training and experience; considerations which it
  was hard for Natalie-or for any woman, he supposed-to grasp.

  Over Martinsburg, West Virginia-some thirty miles northwest of Washington
  Route Center-a private, four-place Beech Bonanza, at seven thousand feet,
  was leaving Airway V166 and entering Airway V44. The little Beech Bonanza,
  identifiable visually by its butterfly tail, was cruising at 175 mph, its
  destination Baltimore. It contained the Redfern family: Irving Redfern, a
  consulting engineer-economist, his wife Merry, and their two
  children-Jeremy, ten years old, and Valerie, nine.
  Irving Redfern was a careful, thorough man. Today, because of favorable
  weather conditions, he could have flown using visual flight rules. However,
  he considered it
              AIRPORT          155

 more prudent to file an instrument flight plan and, since leaving his home
 airport of Charleston, West Virginia, had stayed on airways, remaining in
 touch with air traffic control. A few moments earlier, Washington Route
 Center had given him a new course on Airway V44. He had alreadv turned on it
 and now his magnetic compass, which had been swinging slightly, was settling
 down nicely.
  The Reelferns were going to Baltimore partly for Irving Redfern's business,
  and partly for pleasure, which would include a family theatre outing
  tonight. While their father was concentrating on his flying, the children,
  with Merry, were chattering about what they would have for lunch at
  Friendship Airport.
  The Washington Center controller who had given Irving Redfern his latest
  instructions was George Wallace, the almost-qualified trainee still filling
  in for Keith Bakersfeld. George had correctly identified the Redferns'
  Beechcraft on his radarscope, where it appeared as a bright green dot,
  though smaller and moving more slowly than most other traffic--at the
  moment principally airline jets. There was nothing closing up on the
  Beechcraft, however, which appeared to have plenty of airspace all around
  it. Perry Yount, the sector supervisor, had by now returned to the
  adjoining position. He was helping sort out the aftermath confusion now
  that the critical Northwest Orient 727 had been handed over safely to
  Washington National Airport approach control. Periodically, Perry glanced
  across at George and once called out, "Is everything okay?" George Wallace
  nodded, though he was beginning to sweat a little. Today's heavier noontime
  traffic seemed to be building up earlier than usual.
  Unknown to George Wallace or Perry Yount or Irving Redfern, an Air National
  Guard T-33 jet trainer was flying--at the moment idly in circles-a few
  miles north of Airway V44. The T-33 was from Martin Airport, near
  Baltimore, and its National Guard pilot was an automobile salesman named
  Hank Neel.
  Lieutenant Neel, who was fulfilling his part-time military training
  requirements, had been sent up solo for
 156          AIRPORT

 YFR proficiency flying. Because he had been cautioned to do only local
 flying in an authorized area northwest of Baltimore, no flight plan had been
 filed,- therefore, Washington Air Route Center had no knowledge that the
 T-33 was in the air. This would not have mattered except that Neel had
 become bored with his assignment and was also a careless pilot. Looking out
 casually, as he held the jet trainer in lazy circles, he realized he had
 drifted south while practicing maneuvers, though in reality he had come a
 good deal farther than he imagined. He was so far south that several minutes
 ago the National Guard jet had entered George Wallace's radar control area
 and now appeared on Wallace's screen at Leesburg as a green dot, slightly
 larger than the Redfern family's Beech Bonanza. A more experienced
 controller would have recognized the dot instantly for what it was. George,
 however, still busy with other traffic, had not yet observed the extra,
 unidentified signal.
  Lieutenant Neel, at fifteen thousand feet, decided he would finish his
  flying practice with some aerobaticstwo loops, a couple of slow rolls---and
  then return to base. He swung the T-33 into a steep turn and circled again
  while he took the standard precaution of looking for other airplanes above
  and below. He was now even closer than before to Airway V44.

  The thing his wife failed to realize, Keith Bakersfeld thought, was that a
  man couldn't just quit his job irresponsibly, on a whim, even if he wanted
  to. Especially when the man had a family to support, children to educate.
  Especially when the job you possessed, the skills you so patiently
  acquired, had fitted you for nothing else. In some branches of government
  service, employees could leave and utilize their proficiency elsewhere. Air
  Traffic controllers could not. Their work had no counterpart in private
  industry; no one else wanted them.
  Being trapped that way-which was what it amounted to, Keith recognized-was
  a disillusion which came with other disillusions. Money was one. When you
  were young, enthusiastic, wanting to be a part of avia-
               AIRPORT           157

 tion, the civil service pay scale of an air traffic controller seemed
 adequate or better. Only later did it become clear how inadequate-in
 relation to the job's awesome responsibility-that pay scale was. The two
 most skillful specialists involved in air traffic nowadays were pilots and
 controllers. Yet pilots earned thirty thousand dollars a year while a senior
 controller reached his ceiling at ten thousand. No one believed pilots
 should earn less. But even pilots, who were notoriously selfish in taking
 care of themselves, believed air traffic controllers should earn more.
  Nor was promotion-as in most other occupationssomething an air traffic
  controller could look forward to. Senior supervisory posts were few; only
  a fortunate handful ever attained them.
  And yet . . . unless you were reckless or uncaringwhich controllers, by the
  nature of their work, were not -there was no way out. So there would be no
  quitting for himself, Keith decided. He must have another talk with
  Natalie; it was time she accepted that for better or worse, it was too late
  for change. He had no intention, at this stage, of scratching inadequately
  for some other kind of living.
  He really must go back. Glancing at his watch, he realized guiltily that it
  was almost fifteen minutes since he left the control room. For part of the
  time he had been daydreaming-something he rarely did, and it was obviously
  the somniferous effect of the summer's day. Keith closed the washroom
  window. From the corridor outside, he hurried downward to the main control
  room.

  High over Frederick County, Maryland, Lieutenant Neel straightened up his
  National Guard T-33 and eased on forward trim. Neel had completed his some-
  what casual inspection and had seen no other aircraft. Now, beginning his
  first loop and slow roll, he put the jet trainer into a steep dive.

  Entering the control room, Keith Bakersfeld was aware at once of an
  increased tempo. The hum of voices was louder than when he left. Other
  controllers were too
 158          AIRPORT

 preoccupied to glance up-as they had done earlier this morning-as he
 passed by them on the way to his own position. Keith scribbled a signature
 in the sector log and noted the time, then moved behind George Wallace,
 getting the picture, letting his eyes adjust to the control room
 semidarkness, in sharp contrast to the bright sunlight outside. George had
 murmured "Hi!" as Keith returned, then continued transmitting radio
 instructions to traffic. In a moment or two, when Keith had the picture,
 he would relieve George and slip into his seat. It had probably been good
 for George, Keith reasoned, to be on his own for a while; it would improve
 his confidence. From the adjoining sector console, Perry Yount had noted
 Keith's return.
  Keith studied the radarscope and its moving pinpoints of light-the
  aircraft "targets" which George had identified, then noted on small
  movable markers on the screen. A bright green dot without identification
  caught Keith's eye. He asked George sharply, "What's the other traffic
  near the Beech Bonanza 403?"

  Lieutenant Neel had finished his first loop and slow roll. He had climbed
  back to fifteen thousand feet, and was still over Frederick County,
  though a little farther south. He leveled the T-33 jet, then put the nose
  down sharply and began a dive into a second loop.

  "What other traffic . . . T' George Wallace's eyes followed Keith's
  across the radarscope. He gasped; then in a strangled voice-"My God!"
  With a swift, single movement, Keith ripped the radio headset from George
  and shouldered him aside. Keith flung a frequency switch open, snapped
  a transmit button down. "Beech Bonanza NC-403, this is Washington Center.
  There is unidentified traffic to your left. Make an immediate right turn
  now!"

  The National Guard T-33 was at the bottom of its dive. Lieutenant Neel
  pulled the control column back and, with full power on, began a fast,
  steep climb. Immediately above was the tiny Beech Bonanza, con-
                AIRPORT          159

 taining Irving Redfern and his family, cruising steadily on Airway V44.

  In the control room ... breathlessly ... silently ... praying hard ... they
  watched the closing, bright green dots.
  The radio crackled with a burst of static. "Washington Center, this is
  Beech Abruptly the transmission stopped.

  Irving Redfern was a consulting engineer-economist. He was a competent
  amateur pilot, but not a commercial one.
  An airline pilot, receiving the Washington Center message, would have flung
  his aircraft instantly into a steep right turn. He would have caught the
  urgency in Keith's voice, would have acted, without waiting to trim, or
  acknowledge, or-until later-question. An airline pilot would have ignored
  all minor consequences except the overriding urgency of escaping the nearby
  peril which the route center message unmistakably implied. Behind him, in
  the passenger cabin, scalding cobFee might have spilled, meals scattered,
  even minor injuries resulted. Later there would have been complaints, apol-
  ogies, denunciations, perhaps a Civil Aeronautics Board inquiry. But-with
  ordinary luck-there could have been survival. Quick action could have
  insured it. It would have insured it for the Redfern family, too.
  Airline pilots were conditioned by training and usage, to swift, sure
  reflexes. Irving Redfern was not. He was a precise, scholarly man,
  accustomed to think before acting, and to following correct procedures. His
  first thought was to acknowledge the Washington Center message. Thus, he
  used up two or three seconds-all the time he had. The National Guard T-33,
  swooping upward from the bottom of its loop, struck the Redferns' Beech
  Bonanza on the left side, slicing off the private aircraft's port wing with
  a single screeching rip of metal. The T-33, mortally damaged itself,
  continued upward briefly while its forward section disintegrated. Scarcely
  knowing what was happening-he had caught
 160          AIRPORT

 only the briefest glimpse of the other plane-Lieutenant Neel ejected and
 waited for his parachute to open. Far below, out of control and spinning
 crazily, the Beechcraft Bonanza, with the Redfern family still inside, was
 plummeting to earth.

  Keith's hands were trembling as he tried again. "Beech Bonanza NC-403, this
  is Washington Center. Do you read?"
  Beside Keith, George Wallace's lips moved silently. His face was drained of
  color.
  As they watched in horror, the dots on the radarscope converged, blossomed
  suddenly, then faded.
  Perry Yount, aware of something wrong, bad joined them. "What is it?"
 Keith's mouth was dry. "I think we've had a mid-air."
  It was then it happened: the nightmarish sound which those who heard it
  wished that they had not, yet afterward would not be able to erase from
  memory.

  In the pilot's seat of the doomed, spinning Beech Bonanza, Irving
  Redfern-perhaps involuntarily, perhaps as a last despairing act-pressed the
  transmit button of his microphone and held it down. The radio still worked.

  At Washington Center, the transmission was heard on a console speaker which
  Keith had switched in when his emergency transmissions began. At first
  there was a burst of static, then immediately a succession of piercing,
  frantic, chilling screams. Elsewhere in the control room, heads turned.
  Faces nearby paled. George Wallace was sobbing hysterically. Senior
  supervisors came hurrying from other sections.
  Suddenly, above the screaming clearly, a single voice -terrified, forlorn,
  beseeching. At first, not every word was audible. Only later, when the tape
  recording of the last transmission was played and replayed many times, were
  the full words put together, the voice identified as that of Valerie
  Redfern, nine years old.
 ". . . Mummy! Daddy! . . . Do something! I don't
              AIRPORT          161

 want to die ... Oh, Gentle Jesus, I've been good . . . Please, I don't want.
 . ."
 Mercifully, the transmission stopped.
  The Beech Bonanza crashed and burned near the village of Lisbon, Maryland.
  What remained from the four bodies was unrecognizable and was buried in a
  common grave.
  Lieutenant Neel landed safely by parachute, five miles away.

  AH three controllers involved in the tragedy-George Wallace, Keith
  Bakersfeld, Perry Yount-were at once suspended from duty, pending
  investigation.
  Later, the trainee, George Wallace, was held technically not to blame,
  since he was not a qualified controller when the accident occurred. He was,
  however, dismissed from government service and barred forever for further
  employment in air traffic control.
  The young Negro supervisor, Perry Yount, was held wholly responsible. The
  investigating board-taking days and weeks to play back tapes, examine
  evidence, and review decisions which Yount himself bad had to make in
  seconds, under pressure-decided be should have spent less time on the
  emergency involving the Northwest Orient 727 and more in supervising George
  Wallace during the absence of Keith Bakersfeld. The fact that Perry Yount
  was doing double duty-which, had he been less cooperative, he could have
  refusedwas ruled not relevant. Yount was officially reprimanded, and
  reduced in civil service grade.
  Keith Bakersfeld was totally exonerated. The investigating board was at
  pains to point out that Keith had requested to be temporarily relieved from
  duty, that his request was reasonable, and he followed regulations in
  signing out and in. Furthermore, immediately on return, he perceived the
  possibility of a mid-air collision and tried to prevent it. For his quick
  thinking and actionthough the attempt was unsuccessful-he was commended by
  the board.
  The question of the length of Keith's absence from the control room did not
  arise initially. Near the end of
 '62          AIRPORT

 the investigation-perceiving the way things were going for Perry Yount-Keith
 attempted to raise it himself, and to accept the major share of blame. His
 attempt was treated kindly, but it was clear that the investigating board
 regarded it as a chivalrous gesture-and no more. Keith's testimony, once its
 direction became clear, was cut off summarily. His attempted intervention
 was not referred to in the board's final report.
  An independent Air National Guard inquiry produced evidence that Lieutenant
  Henry Neel had been guilty of contributory negligence in failing to remain
  in the vicinity of Middletown Air Base, and for allowing his T-33 to drift
  near Airway V44. However, since his actual position could not be proved
  conclusively, no charges were preferred. The lieutenant went on selling
  automobiles, and flying during weekends.
  On learning of the investigating board's decision, the supervisor, Perry
  Yount, suffered a nervous collapse. He was hospitalized and placed under
  psychiatric care. He appeared to be moving toward recovery when he received
  by mail, from an anonymous source, a printed bulletin of a California
  rightwing group opposingamong other tbings-Negro civil rights. The bulletin
  contained a viciously biased account of the Redfern tragedy. It portrayed
  Perry Yount as an incompetent, bumbling dullard, indifferent to his
  responsibilities, and uncaring about the Redfern family's death. The entire
  incident, the bulletin argued, should be a warning to "bleeding heart
  liberals" who aided Negroes in attaining responsible positions for which
  they were not mentally equipped. A "housecleaning" was urged of other
  Negroes employed in air traffic control, "before the same thing happens
  again."
  At any other time, a man of Perry Yount's intelligence would have dismissed
  the bulletin as a maniacal diatribe, which it was. But because of his
  condition, he suffered a relapse after reading it, and might have remained
  under treatment indefinitely if a government review board had not refused
  to pay hospital bills for his care, maintaining that his mental illness had
  not been caused through government employment. Yount was
              AIRPORT          163

 discharged from the hospital but did not return to air traffic control.
 When Keith Bakersfeld last heard of him, he was working in a Baltimore
 waterfront bar, and drinking heavily.
  George Wallace disappeared from sight. There were rumors that the former
  trainee controller had re-crilisted -in the U. S. Army Infantry, not the
  Air Force-and was now in serious trouble with the Military Police.
  According to stories, Wallace repeatedly started fist fights and brawls
  in which he appeared to go out of his way to bring physical punishment
  on himself. The rumors were not confirmed.
  For Keith Bakersfeld, it seemed for a while as if life would go on as
  usual. When the investigation ended, his temporary suspension was lifted;
  his qualifications and government service rating remained intact. He
  returned to wor~ at Leesburg. Colleagues, aware that Keith's experience
  could easily have been their own, were friendly and sympathetic. His
  work, at first, went well enough.
  After his abortive attempt to raise the subject before the investigating
  board, Keith confided to no one-not even to Natalie-the fact of his
  washroom loitering that fateful day. Yet the secret knowledge was seldom
  far from the forefront of his mind.
  At home, Natalie was understanding and, as always, loving. She sensed
  that Keith had undergone a traumatic shock from which he would need time
  to recover, and she attempted to meet his moods-to talk or be animated
  when he felt like it, to stay silent when he did not. In quiet, private
  sessions Natalie explained to the boys, Brian and Theo, why they, too,
  should show consideration for their father.
  In an abstracted way, Keith understood and appreciated what Natalie was
  trying to do. Her method might eventually have succeeded, except for one
  thing-an air traffic controller needed sleep. Keith was getting little
  sleep and, some nights, none.
  On the occasions he did sleep, he had a persistent dream in which the
  scene in the Washington Center control roorn, moments before the mid-air
  collision, was
 164          AIRPORT

 re-created the merging pinpoints of light on the radarscope Keith's last
 desperate message . . . the screams; the voice oflittle Valerie Redfern
 ...
  Sometimes the dream had variations. When Keith tried to move toward the
  radarscope to seize George Wallace's radio headset and transmit a
  warning, Keith's limbs resisted, and would change position only with
  frustrating slowness, as if the air surrounding them were heavy sludge.
  His mind warned frantically: If he could only move freely, the tragedy
  could be averted. . . . Although his body strained and fought, be always
  reached his goal too late. At other times he attained the headset, but
  his voice would fail. He knew that if he could articulate words, a
  warning would suffice, the situation could be saved. His mind would race,
  his lungs and larynx strain, but no sound came.
  But evert with variations, the dream always ended the same way--with the
  Beech Bonanza's last radio transmission as he heard it so many times
  during the inquiry, on the played-back tape. And afterward, with Natalie
  asleep beside him, he would lie awake, thinking, remembering, longing for
  the impossible-to change the shape of things past. Later still, he would
  resist sleep, fighting for wakefulness, so he would not endure the
  torture of the dream again.
  It was then that in the loneliness of night, his conscience would remind
  him of the stolen, wasted minutes in the route center washroom; crucial
  minutes when he could have returned to duty, and should have done, but
  through idleness and self-concern had failed to do so. Keith knew-as
  others did not-that the real responsibility for the Redfern tragedy was
  his own, not Perry Yount's. Perry had been a circumstantial sacrifice,
  a technical victim. Perry had been Keith's friend, had trusted Keith that
  day to be conscientious, to come back to the control room as quickly as
  he could. Yet Keith, though knowing his friend was standing double duty,
  aware of the extra pressures on him, had been twice as long as he needed
  to be, and had let Perry down; so in the end, Perry Yount stood accused
  and convicted in Keith's place.
             AIRPORT           165

 Perry for Keith-a sacrificial goat.
  But Perry, though grievously wronged, was still alive. The Redfern family
  was dead. Dead because Keith doodled mentally, dallying in the sunshine,
  leaving a semiexperienced trainee too long with res ' ponsibilities which
  were rightly Keith's, and for which Keith was better qualified. There
  could be no question that had he returned sooner, he would have spotted
  the intruding T33 long before it neared the Redferns' plane. The proof
  was that he had spotted it when he did return-too late to be of use.
  Around and around ... over and over in the night ... as if committed to
  a treadmill ... Keith's mind labored on, self-torturing, sick with grief,
  recrimination. Eventually he would sleep from exhaustion, usually to
  dream, and to awake again.
  In daytime, as well as night, the memory of the Redferns persisted.
  Irving Redfern, his wife, their children -though Keith had never known
  them-haunted him. ne presence of Keith's own children, Brian and Theo
  -alive and well-appeared a personal reproach. Keith's own living,
  breathing, seemed to him an accusation.
  The effect of sleepless nights, the mental turmoil, showed quickly in his
  work. His reactions were slow, decisions hesitant. A couple of times,
  under pressure, Keith "lost the picture" and had to be helped. Afterward
  he realized he had been under close surveillance. His superiors knew from
  experience what might happen, had half-expected some such signs of
  strain.
  Informal, friendly talks followed, in upper-level offices, which achieved
  nothing. Later, on a suggestion from Washington, and with Keith's
  consent, he was transferred from the East Coast to the Midwest-to Lincoln
  International for control tower duty. A change of locale, it was
  believed, would prove therapeutic. Officialdom, with a touch of humanity,
  was also aware that Keith's older brother, Mel, was general manager at
  Lincoln; perhaps Mel Bakersfeld's influence would be steadying too.
  Natalie, though loving Maryland, made the transition without complaint.
 166          AIRPORT

 The idea hadn't worked.
  Keith's sense of guilt persisted; so did the nightmares, which grew, and
  took on other patterns, though always the basic one remained. He slept only
  with the aid of barbiturates prescribed by a physician friend of Mel's.
  Mel understood part of his brother's problem, but not all; Keith still kept
  the secret knowledge of his washroom dawdling at Leesburg solely to
  himself. Later, watching Keith's deterioration, Mel urged him to seek
  psychiatric help, but Keith refused. His reasoning was simple. Why should
  he seek some panacea, some ritualistic mumbo-jumbo to insulate his guilt,
  when the guilt was real, when nothing in heaven or earth or clinical
  psychiatry could ever change it?
  Keith's dejection deepened until even Natalie's resilient nature rebelled
  against his moods. Though aware that he slept badly, Natalie had no
  knowledge of his dreams. One day she inquired in anger and impatience, "Are
  we supposed to wear hair shirts for the rest of our lives? Are we never to
  have fun again, to laugh the way we used to? If you intend to go on this
  way, you'd better understand one thing-1 don't, and I won't let Brian and
  Theo grow up around this kind of misery either."
  When Keith hadn't answered, Natalie went on, "I've told you before: our
  lives, our marriage, the children, are more important than your work. If
  you can't take that kind of work any more-and why should you if it's that
  demanding?-then give it up now, get something else. I know what you always
  tell me: the money'll be less; you'd throw away your pension. But that
  isn't everything; we'd manage somehow. I'll take all the hardship you can
  give me, Keith Bakersfeld, and maybe I'd complain a little, but not much,
  because anything would be better than the way we are right now." She had
  been close to tears, but managed to finish. "I'm warning you I can't take
  much more. If you're going on like this, it may have to be alone."
  It was the only time Natalie had hinted at the possibility of their
  marriage breaking up. It was also the first time Keith considered suicide.
 Later, his idea hardened to resolve.
              AIRPORT          167

  The door of the darkened locker room opened. A switch snapped on. Keith was
  back again in the control tower at Lincoln International, blinking in the
  overhead light's glare.
  Another tower controller, taking his own work break, was coming in. Keith
  put away his untouched sandwiches, closed his locker, and walked back
  toward the radar room. The other man glanced at him curiously. Neither
  spoke.
  Keith wondered if the crisis involving the Air Force KC-135, which had had
  radio failure, had ended yet. Chances were, it had; that the aircraft and
  its crew had landed safely. He hoped so. He hoped that something good, for
  someone, would survive this night.
  As he went in, he touched the O'Hagan Inn key in his pocket to be sure,
  once again, that it was there. He would need it soon.

               4

 It was almost an hour since Tanya Livingston had left Mel Bakersfeld in the
 central lobby of the main terminal. Even now, though other incidents had
 intervened, she remembered the way their hands touched at the elevator, the
 tone he used when he had said, "It'll give me a reason to see you again
 tonight."
  Tanya hoped very much that Mel remembered too, and-though she was aware he
  had to go downtownthat he would find time to stop by first.
  The "reason" Mel referred to-as if he needed one -was his curiosity about
  the message received by Tanya while in the coffee shop. "There's a stowaway
  on night 80," a Trans America agent had told her. "They're calling for
  you," and "the way I hear it, this one's a dilly."
 168          AIRPORT

 The agent had already been proved right.
  Tanya was once more in the small, private lounge behind the Trans America
  check-in counters where earlier this evening she had comforted the
  distraught young ticket agent, Patsy Smith. But now, instead of Patsy,
  Tanya faced the tittle old lady from San Diego.
  "You've done this before," Tanya said. "Haven't you?"
 "Oh yes, my dear. Quite a few times."
  The little old lady sat comfortably relaxed, hands folded daintily in her
  lap, a wisp of lace handkerchief showing between them. She was dressed
  primly in black, with an old-fashioned high-necked blouse, and might have
  been somebody's great-grandmother on her way to church. Instead she had
  been caught riding illegally, without a ticket, between Los Angeles and
  New York.
  There had been stowaways, Tanya recalled reading somewhere, as long ago
  as 700 B.C., on ships of the Phoenicians which plied the eastern
  Mediterranean. At that time, the penalty for those who were caught was
  excruciating death-disembowelment of adult stowaways, while children were
  burned alive on sacrificial stones.
  Since then, penalties had abated, but stowaways had not.
  Tanya wondered if anyone, outside a limited circle of airline employees,
  realized how much of a stowaway epidemic there had been since jet
  airplanes increased the tempo and pressures of passenger aviation.
  Probably not. Airlines worked hard to keep the whole subject under wraps,
  fearing that if the facts became known, their contingent of nonpaying
  riders would be greater still. But there were people who realized how
  simple it all could be, including the little old lady from San Diego.
  Her name was Mrs. Ada Ouonsett. Tanya had checked this fact from a Social
  Security card, and Mrs. Quonsett would undoubtedly have reached New York
  undetected if she had not made one mistake. This was confiding her status
  to her seat companion, who told a stewardess. The stewardess reported to
  the captain, who
             AIRPORT           169

 radioed ahead, and a ticket agent and security guard were waiting to
 remove the little old lady at Lincoln International. She had been brought
 to Tanya, part of whose job as passenger relations agent was to deal with
 such stowaways as the airline was lucky enough to catch.
  Tanya smoothed her tight, trim uniform skirt in the gesture which had
  become a habit. "All right," she said, "I think you'd better tell me
  about it."
  The older woman's hands unfolded and the lace handkerchief changed
  position slightly. "Well, you see, I'm a widow and I have a married
  daughter in New York. Sometimes I get lonely and want to visit her. So
  what I do is go to Los Angeles and get on an airplane that's goin g to
  New York."
 "Just like that? Without a ticket."
  Mrs. Quonsett seemed shocked. "Oh, my dear, I couldn't possibly afford
  a ticket. I just have Social Security and this small pension my late
  husband left. It's all I can do to manage the bus fare from San Diego to
  Los Angeles."
 "You do pay on the bus?"
  "Oh, yes. The Greyhound people are very strict. I once tried buying a
  ticket to the first stop up the line, then staying on. But they make a
  check at every city, and the driver found my ticket wasn't good. They
  were quite unpleasant about it. Not like the airlines at all."
  "I'm curious," Tanya said, "why you don't use San Diego airport."
 "Well, I'm afraid, my dear, they know me there."
 "You mean you've been caught at San Diego?"
 The little old lady inclined her head. "Yes."
  "Have you been a stowaway on other airlines? Besides ours?"
 "Oh, yes. But I like Trans America best."
  Tanya was trying hard to remain severe, though it was difficult when the
  conversation sounded as if they were discussing a stroll to the comer
  store. But she kept her face impassive as she asked, "Why do you like
  Trans America, Mrs. Quonsett?"
 "Well, they're always so reasonable in New York.
 170          AIRPORT

 When I've stayed with my daughter a week or two, and I'm ready to go home,
 I go to your airline offices and tell them."
  "You ten them the truth? That you came to New York as a stowaway?"
  "That's right, my dear. They ask me the date and the flight number-I
  always write it down so I'll remember. Then they look up some papers."
  "The flight manifest," Tanya said. She wondered: was this conversation
  real or just imagination.
 "Yes, dear, I think that's what it's called."
 "Please go on."
  The little old lady looked surprised. "There isn't anything else. After
  that, they just send me home. Usually the same day, on one of your
  airplanes."
 "And that's everything? Nothing else is said?"
  Mrs. Quonsett gave a gentle smile, as she might have done at a vicarage
  afternoon tea. "Well, I do sometimes get a little scolding. I'm told I've
  been naughty, and not to do it again. But that really isn't much, is it?"
 "No," Tanya said. "It certainly isn't,"
  The incredible thing, Tanya realized, was that it was all so obviously
  true. As airlines were aware, it happened frequently. A would-be stowaway
  merely boarded an airplane--there were plenty of ways it could be done
  -and sat quietly, waiting for departure. As long as the stowaway stayed
  away from the first class compartment, where passengers could be
  identified easily, and unless the flight was full, detection was
  unlikely. It was true that stewardesses would count heads, and their
  tally might disagree with the gate agent's manifest. At that point a
  stowaway would be suspected, but the agent in charge would be faced with
  two choices. Either be could let the airplane go, recording on the
  manifest that the head and ticket counts did not agree, or a recheck
  could be made of the tickets of everyone aboard.
  A recheck, if decided on, would take most of half an hour; meanwhile, the
  cost of holding a six-million-dollar jet airplane on the ground would
  soar. Schedules, both at origin and down tile line, would be disrupted.
  Passengers with connections to make, or appointments, would
              AIRPORT          171

 grow angrily impatient, while the captain, conscious of his punctuality
 record, would fume at the agent. The agent would~ reason that he might
 have made a mistake anyway; moreover, unless he could show good reason for
 a delay, he would get a roasting later on from his District Transportation
 Manager. In the end, even if a stowaway was found, the loss in dollars and
 goodwill would far exceed the cost of providing a free ride for a single
 individual.
  So what happened was that the airline did the only sensible thing-it
  closed the doors, and sent the airplane on its way.
  That was usually the end of it. Once in flight, stewardesses were too
  busy to do a ticket check, and passengers would certainly not submit to
  the delay and annoyance of one at journey's end. Therefore the stowaway
  walked off, unquestioned and unhindered.
  What the little old lady had told Tanya about returning was just as
  accurate. Airlines took the view that stowaway incidents should not
  happen and, when they did, it was their own fault for failing to prevent
  them. On the same basis, airlines accepted responsibility for insuring
  that stowaways were returned to their point of origin and--since there
  was no other way to convey them--offenders went back in regular seats,
  getting normal service, including airline meals.
  "You're qice, too," Mrs. Ouonsett said. "I can always tell nice people
  when I meet them. But you're a lot younger than the others in the
  airline-those I get to meet, I mean."
  "You mean the ones who deal with cheats and stowaways."
  "That's fight." The little old lady seemed unabashed. Her eyes moved
  appraisingly. "I should say you're twenty-eight."
 Tanya said shortly, "Thirty-seven."
  "Well, you have a young mature look. Perhaps it comes from being
  married."
  "Come off it," Tanya said. "That isn't going to help you.,,
 "But you are married."
 172          AIRPORT

 "I was. I'm not now."
  "Such a pity. You could have beautiful children. With red hair like your
  own."
  Red hair, perhaps, but not with the beginnings of gray, Tanya thought-the
  gray she had noticed again this morning. As to children, she might have
  explained that she did have a child, who was at home in their apartment
  and, she hoped, asleep. Instead, she addressed Mrs. Ada Quonsett sternly.
  "What you've done is dishonest. You've defrauded; you've broken the law.
  I suppose you realize you can be prosecuted."
  For the first time, a gleam of triumph crossed the older woman's innocent
  face. "But I won't be, will I? They never do prosecute anybody."
  There was really no point in continuing, Tanya thought. She knew
  perfectly well, and so apparently did Mrs. Quonsett, that airlines never
  prosecuted stowaways, on the theory that publicity would be more harmful
  than otherwise.
  There was just a chance, though, that some more questions might produce
  information useful in the future.
  "Mrs. Quonsett," Tanya said, "since you've had so much free travel from
  Trans America, the least you can do is help us a tittle."
 "I'll be glad to if I can."
  "What I'd like to know is how you get aboard our flights. "
  The little old lady smiled. "Well, my dear, there are quite a few ways.
  I try to use different ones as much as I can."
 "Please tell me about them."
  "Well, most times I try to be at the airport early enough so I can get
  myself a boarding pass."
 "Isn't that difficult to do?"
  "Getting a boarding pass? Oh, no; it's very easy. Nowadays airlines use
  their ticket folders as passes. So I go to one of the counters and say
  I've lost my ticket folder, and please may I have another. I pick a
  counter where
              AIRPORT          173

 the clerks are busy, with a lot of people waiting. They always give me
 one."
  Naturally they would, Tanya thought. It was a normal request which
  occurred frequently. Except that, unlike Mrs. Quonsett, most people
  wanted a fresh ticket folder for a legitimate reason.
  "But it's just a blank folder," Tanya pointed out. "It isn't made out as
  a gate pass."
  "I make it out myself-in the ladies' room. I always have some old passes
  with me, so I know what to write. And I keep a big black pencil in my
  purse." Depositing the lace handkerchief in her lap, Mrs. Quonsett opened
  her black beaded purse. "See?"
  "I do see," Tanya said. She reached out, removing the crayon pencil. "Do
  you mind if I keep this?"
  Mrs. Quonsett looked faintly resentful. "It's really mine. But if you
  want it, I suppose I can get another."
  "Go on," Tanya said. "So now you have a boarding pass. What happens after
  that?"
 "I go to where the flight is leaving from."
 "The departure gate?"
  "That's right. I wait until the young man checking the tickets is busy-be
  always is when a lot of people come together. Then I walk past him, and
  on to the airplane."
 "Suppose someone tries to stop you?"
 "No one does, if I have a pass."
 "Not even the stewardesses?"
  "They're just young girls, my dear. Usually they're talking to each
  other, or interested in the men. All they look at is the flight number,
  and I always get that right.'
 "But you said you don't always use a boarding pass.'
  Mrs. Quonsett blushed. "Then, I'm afraid, I have to tell a little white
  lie. Sometimes I say I'm going aboard to see my daughter off-most
  airlines let people do that, you know. Or, if the plane has come in from
  somewhere else, I say I'm going back to my seat, but I left my ticket on
  board. Or, I tell them my son just got on, but he dropped his wallet and
  I want to give it to him. I carry a wallet in my hand, and that works
  best of all."
  "Yes," Tanya said, "I imagine it would. You seem to have thought
  everything out very carefully." She had
 174          AIRPORT

 plenty of material, she mused, for a bulletin to all gate agents and
 stewardesses. She doubted, though, if it would have much effect.
  "My late husband taught me to be thorough. He was a teacher-of geometry.
  He always said you should try to think of every angle."
  Tanya looked hard at Mrs. Quonsett. Was her leg being gently pulled?
  The face of the little old lady from San Diego remained impassive.
  "There's one important thing I haven't mentioned."
  On the opposite side of the room a telephone rang. Tanya got up to answer
  it.
  "Is that old biddy still with you?" The voice was the District
  Transportation Manager's. The D.T.M. was responsible for all phases of
  Trans America operations at Lincoln International. Usually a calm,
  good-natured boss, tonight he sounded irascible. Clearly, three days and
  nights of flight delays, rerouting unhappy passengers, and endless
  needlings from the airline's Eastern head office were having their
  effect.
 "Yes," Tanya said.
 "Get anything useful out of her?"
 "Quite a lot. I'll send you a report."
  "When you do, use some goddarn capitals for once, so I can read it."
 "Yes, sir."
  She made the "sir" sufficiently pointed, so there was a momentary silence
  at the other end. Then the D.T.M. grunted. "Sorry, Tanya! I guess I'm
  passing on to you what I've been getting from New York. Like the cabin
  boy kicking the ship's cat, only you're no cat. Can I do anything?"
  "I'd like a one-way passage to Los Angeles, tonight, for Mrs. Ada
  Quonsett."
 "Is that the old hen?"
 "The same."
  The D.T.M. said sourly, "I suppose, a company charge."
 "I'm afraid so."
 "What I hate about it is putting her ahead of honest-              AIRPORT          175

 to-goodness fare-paying passengers who've been waiting hours already. But
 I guess you're right; we're better off to get her out of our hair."
 "I think so."
  "I'll okay a requisition. You can pick it up at the ticket counter. But
  be sure to alert Los Angeles, so they can have the airport police escort
  the old hag off the premises."
 Tanya said softly, "She could be Whistler's Mother."
  The D.T.M. grunted. "Then let Whistler buy her a ticket."
  Tanya smiled and hung up. She returned to Mrs. Quonsett.
  "You said there was an important thing-about getting aboard flights-that
  you hadn't told me."
  The little old lady hesitated. Her mouth had tightened noticeably at the
  mention, during Tanya's conversation, of a return flight to Los Angeles.
  "You've told me most of it," Tanya prompted. "You might as well finish.
  If there's anything else."
  "There certainly is." Mrs. Quonsett gave a tight, prim nod. "I was going
  to say it's best not to choose the big flights-the important ones, I
  mean, that go non-stop across the country. They often get full, and they
  give people seat numbers, even in Economy. That makes it harder, though
  I did it once when I could see there weren't many others going."
  "So you take flights that aren't direct. Don't you get found out at
  intermediate stops?"
  "I pretend to be asleep. Usually they don't disturb me.,,

 "But this time you were."
  Mrs. Quonsett pressed her lips in a thin, reproving line. "It was that
  man sitting beside me. He was very mean. I confided in him, and he
  betrayed me to the stewardess. That's what you get for trusting people."
  "Mrs. Quonsett," Tanya said. "I imagine you heard; we're going to send
  you back to Los Angeles."
  There was the slightest gleam behind the elderly, gray eyes. "Yes, my
  dear. I was afraid that would happen.
 176          AIRPORT

 But I'd like to get a cup of tea. So, if I can go now, and you'll tell me
 what time to come back..."
  "Oh, no!" Tanya shook her head decisively. "You're not going anywhere
  alone. You can have your cup of tea, but an agent will be with you. I'm
  going to send for one now, and he'll stay with you until you board the
  Los Angeles flight. If I let you loose in this terminal I know exactly
  what would happen. You'd be on an airplane for New York before anybody
  knew it."
  From the momentary hostile glare which Mrs. Ouonsett gave her, Tanya knew
  she had guessed right.
  Ten minutes later, all arrangements were complete. A single seat
  reservation bad been made on Flight 103 for Los Angeles, leaving in an
  hour and a half. The flight was nonstop; there was to be no chance of
  Mrs. Quonsett getting off en route and heading back. D.T.M. Los Angeles
  had been advised by teletype; a memo was going to the crew of Flight 103.
  The little old lady from San Diego had been handed over to a male Trans
  America agent-a recently recruited junior, young enough to be her
  grandson.
  Tanya's instructions to the agent, Peter Coakley, were precise. "You're
  to stay with Mrs. Quonsett until flight time. She says she wants some
  tea, so take her to the coffee shop and she can have it; also something
  to eat if she asks, though there'll be dinner on the flight. But whatever
  she has, stay with her. If she needs the ladies' room, wait outside;
  otherwise, don't let her out of your sight. At flight time, take her to
  the departure gate, go aboard with her and hand her over to the senior
  stewardess. Make it clear that once aboard, she is not to be allowed off
  the airplane for any reason. She's full of little tricks and plausible
  excuses, so be careful."
  Before leaving, the little old lady grasped the young agent's arm. "I
  hope you don't mind, young man. Nowadays an old lady needs support, and
  you do so remind me of my dear son-in-law. He was good-looking, too,
  though of course lie's a lot older than you are now. Your airline does
  seem to employ nice people." Mrs. Quonsett glanced reproachfully at
  Tanya. "At least, most of them are."
             AIRPORT           177

  "Remember what I said," Tanya cautioned Peter Coakley. "She's got a
  barrelful of tricks."
  Mrs. Quonsett said severely, "That isn't very kind. I'm sure this young
  man will form his own opinion."
 The agent was grftming sheepishly.
  At the doorway, Mrs. Quonsett turned. She addressed Tanya. "Despite the
  way you've behaved, my dear, I want you to know that I don't bear any
  grudge."
  A few minutes later, from the small lounge which she had used for
  tonight's two interviews, Tanya returned to the Trans America executive
  offices on the main mezzanine. The time, she noticed, was a quarter to
  nine. At her desk in the big outer office she speculated on whether the
  airline had heard the last, or not, of Mrs. Ada Quonsett. Tanya rather
  doubted it. On her capitalless typewriter she began a memo to the
  District Transportation Manager.

   to: dtm
   froni: tanya liv'stn
   sbject: whistler's mum

  She stopped, wondering where Mel Bakersfeld was, and if he would come.

               5

 He simply couldn't, Mel Bakersfeld decided, go downtown tonight.
  Mel was in his office, in the mezzanine administrative suite. His fingers
  drummed thoughtfully on the surface ,of his desk, from where he had been
  telephoning, obtaining latest reports on the airport's operating status.
  Runway three zero was still out of use, still blocked by the niired
  A6reo-Mexican jet. As a result, the gen-
   178          AIRPORT

 eral runway availability situation was now critical, and traffic
 delays--both in the air and on the ground-were worsening. The possibility
 of having to declare the airport closed, some time within the next few
 hours, was very real.
  Meanwhile, aircraft takeoffs were continuing over Meadowood, which was
  a hornet's nest all its own. The airport switchboard, as well as air
  traffic control's, was being swamped with bitterly complaining calls from
  Meadowood householders-those who were at home. A good many others, Mel
  had been informed, were at the protest meeting he had heard about earlier
  this evening; and now there was a rumor-which the tower chief had passed
  along a few minutes ago-that some kind of public demonstration was being
  planned, to take place at the airport tonight.
  Mel thought glumly: a bunch of demonstrators underfoot was all he needed.
  One good thing was that the category three emergency had just been
  declared concluded, the air force KC-135 which caused it, having landed
  safely. But one emergency ended was no assurance another would not begin.
  Mel had not forgotten the vague unease, the presentiment of danger he had
  felt while on the airfield an hour ago. The feeling, impossible to define
  or justify, still bothered him. Yet even without it, the other cir-
  cumstances were enough to require his remaining here.
  Cindy, of course-still waiting for him at her charity whingding-would
  raise all bell. But she was angry, anyway, because he was going to be
  late; he would have to brace himself to absorb the extra wrath as a
  result of not appearing at all. He supposed he might as well get Cindy's
  first salvo over with. The slip of paper with the downtown number where
  he had reached his wife earlier was still in his pocket. He took it out,
  and dialed.
  As before, it took several minutes for Cindy to come to the telephone,
  and when she did, surprisingly, there was none of the fire she had shown
  during their previous conversation, only an icy chill. She listened in
  silence to Mel's explanation-why it was essential he should remain at the
  airport. Because of the lack of argument, which he had not expected, he
  found himself flound-
               AIRPORT           179

 ering, with labored excuses not wholly convincing to himself. He stopped
 abruptly.
  There was a pause before Cindy inquired coldly, "Have you ftnished?"
 "Yes. 11
  She sounded as if she were talking to someone distasteful and remote. "I'm
  not surprised, because I didn't expect you to come. When you said you
  would, I assumed as usual you were lying."
  He said heatedly, "I wasn't lying, and it isn't as usual. I told you
  earlier tonight, how many times I've been .
 "I thought you said you'd finished."
  Mel stopped. What was the use? He conceded wearily, "Go on."
  "As I was trying to say when you interr-upted-also as usual. . ."
 "Cindy, for God's sake!"
  ". . . knowing you were lying, gave me the chance to do some thinking." She
  paused. "You say you're staying at the airport."
 "Considering that's what this conversation is all about

 "How long?"
 "Until midnight; perhaps all night."
 "Then I'll come out there. You can expect me."
  "Listen, Cindy, it's no good. This isn't the time or place."
  "Then we'll make it the time. And for what I have to say to you, any place
  is good enough."
  "Cindy, please be reasonable. I agree there are things we have to discuss,
  but not . . ."
  Mel stopped, realizing he was talking to himself. Cindy had hung up.
  He replaced his own phone and sat in the silent office, meditatively. Then,
  not quite knowing why, he picked up the telephone again and, for the second
  time tonight, dialed home. Earlier, Roberta had answered. This time it was
  Mrs. Sebastiani, their regular babysitter.
  11 1 was just calling to check," Mel said. "Is everything all right? Are
  the girls in bed?"
 "Roberta is, Mr. Bakersfeld. Libby's just going."
 "May I speak to Libby?"
 180          AIRPORT

  "Well . . . just for a moment, if you promise to be very quick-"
 "I promise."
  Mrs. Sebastiani, Mel perceived, was her usual didactic sell'. When on duty
  she exacted obedience, not just from children, but from entire families. He
  sometimes wondered if the Sebastianis-there was a mousy husband who
  appeared occasionally-ever had emotional marriage problems. He suspected
  not. Mrs. Sebastiani would never permit it.
  He heard the patter of Libby's feet approach the phone.
  "Daddy," Libby said, "does our blood keep going round inside forever and
  ever?"
  Libby's questions were always intriguingly different. She opened new
  subjects as if they were presents under a Christmas tree.
  "Not forever, dear; nothing's forever. Just so long as you five. Your blood
  has been going around for seven years, ever since your heart started
  pumping."
 "I can feel my heart," Libby said. "In my knee."
  He was on the point of explaining that hearts were not in knees, and about
  pulses and arteries and veins, then changed his mind. There was plenty of
  time for all that. As long as you could feel your heart-wherever it seemed
  to be-that was the important thing. Libby had an instinct for essentials;
  at times he had the impression that her little hands reached up and
  gathered stars of truth.
 "Goodnight, Daddy."
 "Goodnight, my love."
  Mel was still not sure why be had called, but he felt better for having
  done so.
  As to Cindy, when she determined to do something she usually did it, so it
  was entirely likely that she would arrive at the airport later tonight. And
  perhaps she was right. There were fundamental things they had to settle,
  notably whether their hollow shell of a marriage was to continue for the
  children's sake, or not. At least they would have privacy here, out of
  hearing of Roberta and Libby, who had overheard too many of their fights
  before.
              AIRPORT          181

  At the moment there was nothing specific for Mel to do, except be
  available. He went out from his office onto the executive mezzanine,
  looking down on the continued bustling activity of the main terminal
  concourse.
  It would not be many years, Mel reflected, before airport concourses
  changed dramatically. Something would have to be done soon to revise the
  present inefficient way in which people boarded airplanes and got off
  them. Simply walking on and off, individually, was far too cumbersome and
  slow. As each year passed, individual airplanes cost more and more
  millions of dollars; at the same time, the cost of letting them stay idle
  on the ground grew greater. Aircraft designers, airline planners, were
  striving to arrange more flying hours, which produced revenue, and fewer
  ground hours, which produced none at all.
  Already plans were afoot for "people-pods"-based on American Airline-type
  "igloos" now used for preloading air freight. Most other airlines had
  their own variants of the igloo system.
  Freight igloos were self-contained compartments, shaped to fit tightly
  in a jet plane fuselage. Each igloo was pre-loaded with freight of
  associated shapes and sizes, and could be lifted to fuselage level, and
  stowed inside a jet, in minutes. Unlike conventional passenger planes,
  the inside of a jet freighter was usually a hollow shell. Nowadays when
  an all-cargo plane arrived at an airport freight terminal, igloos already
  in the airplane were off-loaded, and new ones put in. With a minimum of
  time and labor, an entire jet could be swiftly unloaded, reloaded, and
  be ready again for takeoff.
  "People-pods" would be an adaptation of the same idea, and Mel had seen
  drawings of the type now contemplated. They would comprise small,
  comfortable cabin sections complete with seats, which passengers would
  step into at an airport check-in point. The pods would then be whisked
  on conveyor lines-similar to present baggage conveyor systems-to ramp
  positions. While their occupants remained seated, the people-pods would
  be slid into an aircraft which might have arrived only a few minutes
  earlier, but had already discharged other people-pods containing incoming
  passengers.
 182          AIRPORT

  When the pods were loaded and in place, windows in them would correspond
  with windows in the aircraft fuselage. Doors at the end of each pod would
  fold back so that stewardesses and passengers could pass through to other
  sections. Galley compartments, complete with fresh food and fresh
  stewardesses, would be inserted as separate pods.
  A refinement of the system might eventually allow boarding of people-pods
  downtown, or permit interline transfers by passengers without ever leaving
  their seats.
  A related concept was a "sky lounge" already under development in Los
  Angeles. Each lounge, holding forty passengers, would be part-bus,
  part-helicopter. On local routes it could travel suburban or downtown
  streets under its own power, then, at a local heliport become a pod beneath
  an outsize helicopter-the entire unit whisked to and from an airport.
  And these things would happen, Mel Bakersfeld reflected. Or if not those
  precisely, then something similar, and soon. A fascination, for those who
  worked in the aviation milieu, was the speed with which fantastic dreams
  came true.
  A shout, abruptly, from the concourse below, broke into his thoughts.
 "Hey, Bakersfeld! Hey up there!"
  Mel searched with his eyes, seeking the source of the voice. Locating it
  was made more difficult by the fact that fifty or so faces, their owners
  curious about who was being called, had simultaneously swung up. A moment
  later he identified the caller. It was Egan Jeffers, a tall, lean Negro in
  light tan slacks and a short-sleeved shirt. One sinewy brown arm gestured
  urgently.
  "You get down here, Bakersfeld. You hear me! You got troubles."
  Mel smiled. Jeffers, who held the terminal shoeshine concession, was an
  airport character. With a challenging, broad grin across his homely
  features, he could make the most outrageous statements and somehow get away
  with it.
  "I hear you, Egan Jeffers. How about you coming up instead?"
              AIRPORT          183

  The grin widened. "Nuts to that, Bakersfeld! I'm a lessee and don't forget
  it."
  "If I do, I suppose you'll read me the Civil Rights Act."
  "You said it, Bakersfeld. Now haul your ass down here."
  "And you watch your language in my airport." Still amused, Mel turned away
  from the mezzanine rail and headed for the staff elevator. At the main
  concourse level, Egan Jeffers was waiting.
  Jeffers operated four shoeshine parlors within the terminal. As concessions
  went, it was not a major one, and the airport's parking, restaurant, and
  newsstand concessions produced revenues which were astronomical by
  comparison. But Egan Jeffers, a one-time curbside bootblack, blithely
  behaved as if he alone kept the airport solvent.
 "We gotta contract, me and this airport. Check?"
 "Check."
  "Down in all that fancy rig-y-marole it says I got the ex-clu-sive right to
  shine shoes in these here premises. Ex-clu-sive. Check?"
 "Check."
  "Like I said, man, you got trouble. Follow me, Bakersfeld."
  They crossed the main concourse to a lower level escalator which Jeffers
  descended in long strides, two steps at a time. He waved genially to
  several people as they passed. Less athletically, favoring his weaker foot,
  Mel followed.
  At the foot of the escalator, near the group of carrental booths occupied
  by Hertz, Avis, and National, Egan Jeffers gestured. "There it is,
  Bakersfeld! Look at it! Taking the shoe polish outa the mouths of me and
  the boys who work for me."
  Mel inspected the cause of complaint. At the Avis counter a bold display
  card read:

A SHINE WHILE YOU SIGN
With Our Compliments

        We're Trying Harder Still!
 184          AIRPORT

 Beneath, at floor level, was a rotating electric shoe polisher, positioned
 so that anyone standing at the counter could do what the notice said.
  Mel was half amused; the other half of his mind accepted Egan Jeffers'
  complaint. Half-kidding or not, Jeffers was within his rights. His
  contract spelled out that no one else at the airport could shine shoes,
  just as Jeffers himself could not rent cars or sell newspapers. Each
  concessionaire received the same kind of protection in return for the
  substantial portion of his profits which the airport appropriated for
  itself.
  With Egan Jeffers watching, Mel crossed to the carrental booth. He
  consulted his pocket panic list-a slim booklet containing private
  telephone numbers of senior airport personnel. The Avis manager was
  listed. The girl behind the counter switched on an automatic smile as he
  approached. Mel instructed her, "Let me use your phone."
 She protested, "Sir, it's not a public .
  "I'm the airport manager." Mel reached across, picked up the telephone
  and dialed. Not being recognized in his own airport was a frequent
  experience. Most of Mel's work kept him behind scenes, away from public
  areas, so that those who worked there seldom saw him.
  Listening to the ringing tone, he wished that other problems could be
  settled as swiftly and simply as this one was going to be.
  It took a dozen rings, then several minutes more of waiting, before the
  Avis manager's voice came on the line. "Ken Kingsley here."
 "I might have needed a car," Mel said. "Where were
 ug"
  "Playing with my kid's trains. Take my mind off automobfles--and people
  who call me about them."
  "Must be great to have a boy," Mel said. "I just have girls. Is your boy
  mechanically minded?"
  "An eight-year-old genius. Any time you need him to run that toy airport
  of yours, let me know."
  "Sure will, Ken." Mel winked at Egan Jeffers. "There is one thing he
  might do now. He could set up a shoe-
                AIRPORT          185

 shine machine at home. I happen to know where there's one surplus. So do
 you."
  There was a silence, then the Avis manager sighed. "Why is it you guys
  always want to stifle a little honest sales promotion?"
  "Mostly because we're mean and ornery. But we can make it stick. Remember
  that contract clause?-any change in display space must have prior approval
  of airport management. Then there's the one about not infringing on other
  lessees' business."
  "I get it," Kingsley said. "Egan Jeffers has been beefing."
 "Let's say be isn't cheering."
  "Okay, you win. I'll tell my people to yank the daran thing. Is there any
  fat rush?"
  "Not really," Mel said. "Any time in the next half hour will do."
 "You bastard."
  But he could hear the Avis man chuckling as he hung up.
  Egan Jeffers nodded approvingly, his wide grin still in place. Mel brooded:
  I'm the friendly airport fun man; I make everybody happy. He wished he
  could do the same thing for himself.
  "You handled that A-OK, Bakersfeld," Jeffers said. "Just stay on the ball
  so it don't happen again." At a businesslike pace, still beaming, he headed
  for the "up" escalator.
  Mel followed more slowly. On the main concourse level, at the Trans America
  counters, a milling crowd was in front of two positions marked:

Special Check-in
Flight Two-The Golden Argosy
Rome Nonstop

 Nearby, Tanya Livingston was talking animatedly with a group of passengers.
 She signaled Mel and, after a moment or two, came over to join lum.
  "I mustn't stop; it's like a madhouse here. I thought you were going
  downtown."
 186          AIRPORT

  "My plans changed," Mel said. "For that matter, I thought you were going
  off duty."
  "The D.T.M. asked if I'd stay. We're trying to get The Golden Argosy away
  on time. It's supposed to be for prestige, though I suspect the real reason
  is, Captain Demerest doesn't like to be kept waiting."
  "You're letting prejudice carry you away." Mel grinned. "Though sometimes
  I do, too."
  Tanya gestured down the concourse to a raised platform with a circular
  counter surrounding it, a few yards from where they were standing. "That's
  what your big fight with your brother-in-law was all about; why Captain
  Dernerest is so mad at you. Isn't it?"
  Tanya was pointing to the airport's insurance-vending booth. A dozen or
  more people were ranged around the circular counter, most of them
  completing application forms for air trip insurance. Behind the counter,
  two attractive girls, one a striking blonde with big breasts, were busy
  writing policies.
  "Yes," Mel acknowledged, "that was most of our trouble-at least, recently.
  Vernon and the Air Line Pflots Association think we should abolish
  insurance booths at airports, and insurance policy vending machines. I
  don't. The two of us had a battle about it in front of the Board of Airport
  Commissioners. What Vernon didn't like, and still doesn't, is that I won."
  "I heard," Tanya looked at Mel searchingly. "Some of us don't agree with
  you. This time we think Captain Dernerest is right."
  Mel shook his head. "Then we'll have to disagree. I've been over it all so
  many times; Vernon's arguments just don't make sense."
  They hadn't made any more sense-in Mel's opinion -that day a month ago, at
  Lincoln International, when Vernon Denierest had appeared before an Airport
  Commissioners meeting. Vernon requested the bearing, and had represented
  the Air Line Pilots Association, which was waging a campaign to outlaw
  insurance vending at airports everywhere.
 Mel remembered the details of the session clearly.
 It was a regular Board of Airport Commissioners
             AIRPORT           187

 meeting, on a Wednesday morning in the air-port board room. Ali five
 commissioners were present: Mrs. Mildred Ackerman, an attractive brunette
 housewife who was rumored to be a mistress of the mayor, hence her
 appointment; and her four male colleagues-a university professor, who was
 Board chairman, two local businessmen, and a retired union official.
  The Board room was a mahogany paneled chamber, in the terminal, on the
  executive mezzanine. At one end, on a raised platform, the commissioners
  sat in reclining leather chairs behind a handsome elliptical-shaped table.
  At a lower level was a second table, less elaborate. Here Mel Bakersfeld
  presided, flanked by his department beads. Alongside was a press table and,
  at the rear, a section for the public, since Board meetings were nominally
  open. The public section was rarely occupied.
  Today the only outsider, apart from commissioners and staff, was Captain
  Vernon Demerest, smartly attired in Trans America uniform, his four gold
  stripes of rank bright under the overhead lights. He sat waiting in the
  public section, with books and papers spread over two other chairs beside
  him. Courteously, the Board elected to hear Captain Dernerest first, ahead
  of its regular business,
  Demerest rose. He addressed the Board with his usual self-assurance, and
  referred only occasionally to his notes. He was appearing, he explained, on
  behalf of the Air Line Pilots Association, of which he was a local council
  chairman. However, the views he would expound were equally his own, and
  were shared by most pilots of all airlines.
  The commissioners settled back in their reclining chairs to listen.
  Airport insurance vending, Dernerest began, was a ridiculous, archaic
  hangover from flying's early days. The very presence of insurance booths
  and machines, their prominence in airport concourses, were insults to
  commercial aviation, which bad a finer safety record, in relation to miles
  traveled, than any other form of transportation.
 In a railway station or bus depot, or on boarding an
 188          AiRPORT

 ocean liner, or driving his own car from a parking garage, did a departing
 traveler have special insurance policies, against death and mutilation,
 thrust beneath his nose with subtle sales pressure? Of course not!
 Then why aviation?
  Demerest aTiswered his own question. The reason, he declared, was that
  insurance companies knew a rich bonanza when they saw it, "and never mind
  the consequences."
  Commercial aviation was still sufficiently new so that many people thought
  of traveling by air as hazardous, despite the provable fact that an
  individual was safer in a commercial airliner than in his own home. This
  inherent mistrust of flying was magnified on the exceedingly rare occasions
  when an airline accident occurred. The impact was dramatic, and obscured
  the fact that far more deaths and injuries occurred in other, more accepted
  ways.
  The truth about the safety of flying, Demerest pointed out, was attested by
  insurance companies themselves. Airline pilots, whose exposure to air
  travel was far greater than that of passengers, could buy standard life
  insurance at regular rates and, through their own group plans, at even
  lower rates than the general populace.
  Yet other insurance companies, abetted by greedy airport managements, and
  with the docile acquiescence of airlines, continued to batten on the fears
  and gullibility of air travelers.
  Listening, at the staff table, Mel conceded mentally that his
  brother-in-law was making a lucid presentation, though the reference to
  "greedy airport managements" had been unwise. The remark had produced
  frowns from several of the five commissioners, including Mrs. Ackerman.
  Vernon Demerest seemed not to notice. "Now, madam and gentlemen, we come to
  the most significant, the vital point."
  This, he declared, was the very real danger, to every air passenger and to
  all flying crews, created by irresponsible, casual sales of insurance
  policies at airport counters, and by vendiag machines . . . "policies
  prom-
               AIRPORT           189

 ising vast sums, fortunes, in return for a mere few dollars' premium."
  Demerost continued heatedly: "The system-if you choose t(, dignify a public
  disservice by calling it a system . . . and most pilots don't-offers a
  gilt-edged, open invitation to maniacs and criminals to engage in sabotage
  and mass murder. Their objectives need be only the simplest: personal
  reward for themselves or their expected beneficiaries."
  "Captain!" The woman commissioner, Mrs. Ackerman, was leaning forward in
  her chair. From her voice and expression, Mel guessed she was doing a slow
  bum about thi~ "greedy airport managements" remark. "Captain, we're hearing
  a whole lot of your opinions. Do you have any facts to back up all this?"
 "Indeed I do, madam. There are many facts."
  Vernon Demerest bad prepared his case thoroughly. Using charts and graphs,
  he demonstrated that known in-flight disasters caused by bombings or other
  acts of violence averaged one and one half per year. Motives varied, but a
  consistent, prevalent cause was financial gain from flight insurance. As
  well, there had been additional bombing attempts which either failed or
  were prevented, and other disasters where sabotage was suspected bul. not
  proved.
  He named classic incidents: Canadian Pacific Airlines, 1949 and 1965;
  Western Airlines, 1957; National Airlines, 1960 and a suspected sabotage in
  1959; two Mexican airlines, 1952 and 1953; Venezuelan Airlines, 1960;
  Continental Airlines, 1962; Pacific Air Lines, 1964; United Air Lines,
  1950, 1955, and a suspected sabotage ~n 1965. In nine of the thirteen
  incidents, all passengers and crew members perished.
  It was true, of course, that where sabotage was exposed, any insurance
  policies which had been taken out by those involved were automatically
  invalidated. In short: sabotage didn't pay, and normal, informed people
  were aware of this, They also knew that even after an air disastcr from
  which there were no survivors, providing wieckage was located, it was
  possible to tell
 190          AIRPORT

 whether an explosion had occurred and, usually, by what means.
  But it was not normal people, Demerest reminded the commissioners, who
  committed bombings or savage acts of violence. It was the abnormal, the
  psychopaths, the criminally insane, the conscienceless mass killers. That
  kind of people were seldom well-informed, and even if they were, the
  pyschopathic mind had a way of perceiving only what it wanted to, of
  bending facts to suit what it was convenient to believe.
  Mrs. Ackerman made an interjection again; this time her hostility to
  Dernerest was unmistakable. "I'm not sure any of us, even you, Captain,
  have qualifications to discuss what goes on in the mind of psychopaths."
  "I wasn't discussing it," Demerest said impatiently. "In any case, that
  isn't the point."
  "Pardon me, you were discussing it. And I happen to think it is the point."
  Vernon Demerest flushed. He was accustomed to command, not to being
  questioned. His temper, never far below the surface, flashed. "Madam, are
  you normally stupid or just being deliberately obtuse?"
  The Board chairman rapped sharply with his gavel, and Mel Bakersfeld
  resisted the urge to laugh.
  Well, Mel thought, we might as well finish right now. Vernon should stick
  to flying, which he was good at, and avoid diplomacy, where he had just
  struck out. The chances of the Airport Board doing anything which Captain
  Demerest wanted were, at this moment, minus nil-at least unless Mel helped
  Demerest out. For a moment he wondered if he should. He suspected Demerest
  realized he had gone too far. However, there was still time to turn what
  had just happened into a joke which everyone could laugh at, including
  Mildred Ackerman. Mel bad a knack for doing that kind of thing, for making
  differences amenable, at the same time saving face for those on both sides.
  Also, he knew he was a favorite of Millie Ackerman's; they got on well
  together, and she always listened attentively to anything Mel might , say.
 Then he decided: the hell with it. He doubted if his
             AIRPORT           191

 brother-in-law would do the same thing if their situations werc reversed.
 Let Vernon get out of the mess himself. I n any case, Mel was going to
 have his own say in a few ruinutes' time.
  "Captain Demerest," the Board chairman observed coldly, "that last remark
  is uncalled for, out of order, and you A ill please withdraw it."
  Demerest's features were still flushed. Momentarily be hesitated, then
  nodded. "Very well, I withdraw it." He glanced at Mrs. Acker-man. "I beg
  the lady's pardon. Perhaps she can understand that this is a subject
  which 1, like most commercial flying crews, feel strongly about. When
  thcre's something which seems to me so obvious . . ."He left the sentence
  incomplete.
  Mrs. Ackerman was glaring. The apology, such as it was, Mel thought, had
  been handled badly. Now it was too late to smooth things over, even if
  he wanted to.
  One oC the other commissioners asked, "Captain, what exactly do you want
  from us?"
  Demerest took a pace forward. His voice became persuasive. "I'm appealing
  to you for abolition of insurance machines and over-the-counter insurance
  vending at this airport, and a promise that you will refuse to rent
  space, ever again, for the same purpose."
 "You'd. abolish insurance sales entirely?"
  "At airports-yes. I may say, madam and gentlemen, that the Air Line
  Pilots Association is urging other airports to do the same thing. We're
  also asking Congress to take action to make airport insurance sales
  illegal."
  "What would be the point of doing that in the United States, when air
  travel is international?"
  Demer--st smileJ faintly. "This campaign is international, too."
 "How international?"
  "We have the active support of pilots' groups in forty-eight other
  countries. Most believe that if an example were set in North America,
  either by the U.S. or Canada,others would follow."
  The same commissioner said skeptically, "I'd say you're all expecting
  quite a lot."
 192          AIRPORT

  "Surely," the chairman interjected, "the public is entitled to buy air
  travel iniurance if they want it."
  Demerest nodded agreement. "Of course. No one is saying they can't."
 "Yes, you are." It was Mrs. Ackerman again.
  The muscles around Demerest's mouth tightened. "Madam, anyone can get all
  the travel insurance he wants. All he needs have is the elementary
  foresight to make arrangements in advance-through any insurance broker or
  even a travel agency." His glance took in the other commissioners.
  "Nowadays a good many people carry a blanket accident policy for travel;
  then they make all the trips they want, and they're insured permanently.
  There are plenty of ways of doing it. As an example, the major credit card
  companies-Diners, American Express, Carte Blanche-all offer permanent
  travel insurance to their card holders; it can be renewed automatically
  each year, and billed."
  Most businessmen who traveled, Dernerest pointed out, had at least one of
  the credit cards he had named, so abolition of airport insurance need
  impose no hardship nor inconvenience on business people.
  "And with all these blanket policies, the rates are low. I know, because I
  have that kind of policy myself."
  Vernon Dernerest paused, then continued, "The important thing about all
  these insurance policies is that they go through channels. The applications
  are handled by experienced people; a day or so elapses between an
  application and the issuance of the policy. Because of this, there is a far
  better chance of the psychotic, the maniac, the unbalanced individual being
  noticed, his intentions questioned.
  "Another thing to remember-an insane or unbalanced person is a creature of
  impulse. Where flight insurance is concerned, this impulse is catered to by
  the quickie, no-questions-asked policies available from airport vending
  machines and at insurance counters."
  "I think we all get the point you're making," the .chairman said sharply.
  "You're beginning to repeat yourself, Captain."
             AIRPORT           193

  Mrs. Ackerman nodded. "I agree. Personally, I'd like to hear what Mr.
  Bakersfeld has to say."
  The eyes of the commissioners swung toward Mel. He acknowledged. "Yes, I do
  have some observations. But I'd prefer to wait until Captain Demerest is
  completely finished."
  "He's finished," Mildred Ackerman said. "We just decided."
  One of the other commissioners laughed, and the chairman rapped with his
  gravel. "Yes, I really think so ... If you please, Mr. Bakersfeld."
  As Mel rose, Vernon Demerest returned, glowering, to his seat.
  "I mayas well make it clear," Mel began, "that I take the opposite point of
  view to just about everything Vernon has said. I guess you could call it a
  family disagreement."
  The commissioners, who were aware of Mel's relationship by marriage to
  Vernon Demerest, smiled, and already, Mel sensed, the tension of a few
  minutes earlier had lessened. He was used to these meetings and knew that
  inforniality was always the best approach. Vernon could have found that
  out, too-if he had taken the trouble to inquire.
  "There are several points we ought to think about," Met continued. "First,
  let's face up to the fact that most people have always had an inherent fear
  of flying, and I'm convinced that feeling will always exist, no matter how
  much progress we make, and however much we improve our safety record.
  Incidentally, the one point on which I agree with Vernon is that our safety
  record is exceedingly good already."
  He went on: Because of this inherent fear, many passengers felt more
  comfortable, more reassured, with air trip insurance. They wanted it. They
  also wanted it to be obtainable at airports, a fact proven by the enormous
  volume of sales from vending machines and airport insurance booths. It was
  a matter of freedom that passengers should have the right, and the
  opportunity, to buy insurance or not. As for getting the insurance ahead of
  time, the plain fact was that most people didn't
 194          AIRPORT

 think of it. Besides, Mel added, if flight insurance were sold this way,
 a great deal of revenue to airports-including Lincoln International-would
 be lost. At the mention of airport revenue, Mel smiled. The airport
 commissioners smiled with him.
  That was the crux of it, of course, Mel realized. Revenue from the
  insurance concessions was too important to lose. At Lincoln
  International, the airport gained half a million dollars annually from
  commissions on insurance sales, though few purchasers realized that the
  air-port appropriated twenty-five cents from every premium dollar. Yet
  insurance represented the fourth largest concession, with only parking,
  restaurants, and auto rentals producing larger sums for the airport's
  coffers. At other big airports, insurance revenue was similar or higher.
  It was all very well, Mel reflected, for Vernon Demerest to talk about
  "greedy airport managements," but that kind of money had a way of
  talking, too.
  Mel decided not to put his thoughts into speech. His single brief
  reference to revenue was enough. The commissioners, who were familiar
  with the airport's financial affairs, would get the point.
  He consulted his notes. They were notes which one of the insurance
  companies doing business at Lincoln International had supplied him with
  yesterday. Mel bad not asked for the notes, nor had he mentioned to
  anyone outside his own office that today's insurance debate was coming
  up. But the insurance people had somehow learned, and it was
  extraordinary how they always did -then acted promptly to protect their
  interests.
  Mel would not have used the notes if they had run counter to his own
  honestly held opinions. Fortunately, they did not.
  "Now," Mel said, "about sabotage-potential and otherwise." He was aware
  of the board members listening intently.
  "Vernon has talked quite a lot about that-but I must say, having listened
  carefully, that most of his remarks seemed to me to be overstatements.
  Actually, the
             AIRPORT           195

 proven incidents of air disasters because of insurance-inspired bombings
 have been very few."
  In the spectator section, Captain Dernerest shot to his feet. "Great
  God!--how many disasters do we need to have?"
  The chairman rapped sharply with his gavel. "Captain ... if you please!"
  Mel waited until Demerest subsided, then continued calmly, "Since the
  question has been asked, the answer is 'none.' A more pertinent question
  is: Might not the disasters still have occurred, even if airport-purchased
  insurance had not been available?"
  Mel paused, to let his point sink home, before continuing.
  "It can be argued, of course, that if airport insurance had not been
  available, the disasters we are talking about might never have happened at
  all. In other words, these were crimes of impulse, triggered by the ease
  with which airport insurance can be bought. Similarly, it can be contended
  that even if the crimes were contemplated in advance, they might not have
  been carried through had flight insurance been less readily available.
  Those, I think, are Vernon's arguments-and the ALPA's."
  Mel glanced briefly at his brother-in-law who gave no sign beyond a scowl.
  "The glaring weakness of all those arguments," Mel maintained, "is that
  they are purely suppositional. It seems to me just as likely that someone
  planning such a crime would not be deterred by the absence of airport
  insurance, but would merely obtain their insurance elsewhere, which-as
  Vernon himself pointed out-is a simple thing to do."
  Expressed another way, Mel pointed out, flight insurance appeared only a
  secondary motive of would-be saboteurs, and not a prime reason for their
  crime. The real motives, when aerial sabotage occurred, were based on
  age-old human weaknesses-love triangles, greed, business failures, suicide.
  As long as there had been human beings, Mel argued, it had proven
  impossible to eliminate these motives. Therefore, those concerned with
  aviation safety and
 196          AIRPORT

 sabotage prevention should seek, not to abolish airport flight insurance,
 but to strengthen other precautionary measures in the air and on the ground.
 One such measure was stricter control of the sale of dynamitethe principal
 tool used by most aerial saboteurs to date. Another proposal was development
 of "sniffer" devices to detect explosives in baggage. One such device, Mel
 informed the attentive Airport Commissioners, was already in experimental
 use.
  A third idea-urged by flight insurance companieswas that passengers'
  baggage be opened for examination before flight, in the same way that
  happened with Customs inspection now. However, Mel concluded, the last idea
  presented obvious difficulties.
  There should be stricter enforcement, he claimed, of existing laws
  prohibiting the carrying of side arms on commercial airliners. And airplane
  design should be studied in relation to sabotage, with the objective that
  aircraft could better endure an internal explosion. In that connection, one
  idea-also advocated by the insurance vendinv companies-was for an inner
  skin of baggage compartments to be made stronger and heavier than at
  present, even at the price of increased weight and decreased airline
  revenue.
  The FAA, Mel pointed out, had made a study of airport insurance and
  subsequently opposed any ban on airport sales. Mel glanced at Vernon
  Demerest, who was glowering. Both knew that the FAA "study" was a sore
  point with the airline pilots since it had been made by an insurance
  company executive-an aviation insurance man himself-whose impartiality was
  highly suspect.
  There were several more points remaining in the insurance company notes
  which Mel had not yet touched on, but he decided he had said enough.
  Besides, some of the remaininp- arguments were less convincing, He even had
  serious doubts, now that he had made it, about the baggage compartment
  suggestion of a moment or two ago. Who would the extra weight be for, he
  wondered -the passengers, airlines, or mostly for the flight insurance
  companies? But the other arguments, he thought, were sound enough.
             AIRPORT           197

  "So," he concluded, "what we have to decide is whether, because of
  supposition and very little else, we should deprive the public of a service
  which they so obviously want."
  As Mel resumed his seat, Mildred Ackerman said promptly and emphatically,
  "I'd say no." She shot Vernon Dernerest a glance of triumph.
  With minimum formality the other commissioners agreed, then adjourned,
  leaving other business until after-noon.
  In the corridor outside, Vernon Dernerest was waiting for Mel.
  "Hi, Vernon!" Mel spoke quickly, making an effort at conciliation before
  his brother-in-law could speak. "No hard feelings, I hope. Even friends and
  relatives have to differ now and then."
  The "friends" was, of course, an overstatement. Mel Bakersfeld and Vernon
  Demerest had never liked each other, despite Demerest's marriage to Mel's
  sister, Sarab, and both men knew it; also, of late, the dislike bad
  sharpened to open antagonism.
  "You're damn right there are hard feellings," Demcrest said. The peak of
  his anger had passed, but his eyes were hard.
  The commissioners, now filing out from the Board room, looked curiously at
  them both. The commissioners were on their way to lunch. In a few minutes
  Mel would join them.
  Demerest said contemptuously, "It's easy for people like you--ground-bound,
  desk-tied, with penguins' minds. If you were in the air as often as I am,
  you'd have a difforent point of view."
 Mel said sharply, "I wasn't always flying a desk."
  "Oh, for Christ's sake! Don't hand me that hero veteran crap. You're at
  zero-feet now; the way you think shows it. If you weren't, you'd see this
  insurance deal the way any self-respecting pilot does."
  "You're sure you mean self-respecting, not selfadoring?" If Vernon wanted
  a slanging match, Mel decided, he could have one. There was no one else
  within hearing now. "The trouble with most of you
 198          AIRPORT

 pilots is you've become so used to thinking of yourselves as demigods and
 captains of the clouds, you've convinced yourselves your brains are
 something wonderful too. Well, except in a few specialized ways, they're
 not. Sometimes I think the rest of what you have has addled through sitting
 up in that rarefied air too long while automatic pilots do the work. So when
 someone comes up with an honest opinion which happens to run counter to your
 own, you behave like spoiled little children."
  "I'll let al] that stuff go," Dernerest said, "though if anybody's childish
  it's you right now. What's more to the point is that you're dishonest."
 "Now look, Vernon. . ."
  "An honest opinion, you said." Dernerest sported in disgust. "Horiest
  opinion, my eye! In there, you were using an insurance company poop sheet.
  You were reading from it! I could see from where I was sitting, and I know
  because I have a copy myself." He touched the pile of books and papers he
  was carrying. "You didn't even have the decency, or take the trouble, to
  prepare a case yourself."
  Mel flushed. His brother-in-law had caught him out. He should have prepared
  his own case, or at least adapted the insurance company's notes and had
  them retyped. It was true he had been busier than usual for several days
  before the meeting, but that was no excuse.
  "Some day you may regret this," Vernon Demerest said. "If you. do, and I'm
  around, I'll be the one to remind you of today. Until then, I can do
  without seeing you any mote than I have to."
  Before Mel could reply, his brother-in-law had turned and gone.

  Remembeiing, now, with Tanya beside him in the main terminal concourse, Mel
  wondered-as he had several times since-if he could not have handled the
  clash with Vernon a good deal better. He could still have differed with his
  brother-in-law; even now Mel saw no reason to change his point of view. But
  he could have done it more good-naturedly, avoiding the tactless-
                AIRPORT          199

 ness which was a part of Vernon Dernerest's makeup, but not of Mel's.
  There had been no confrontation, since that day, between the two of them;
  the near-encounter with Demcrest in the airport coffee shop tonight had
  been Mel's first sight of his brother-in-law since the airport commis-
  sioners' meeting. Mel had never been close to his older sister, Sarah,
  and they seldom visited each other's homes. Yet sooner or later, Mel and
  Vernon Dernerest would have to meet, if not to resolve their differences,
  at least to shelve them. And, Mel thought, judging by the strongly worded
  snow committee report-unquestionably inspired by Vernon's antagonism-the
  sooner it happened, the better.
  "I wouldn't have mentioned the insurance bit," Tanya said, "if I'd known
  it would send you so far away from me.
  Though the recollections which had flashed through his mind occupied only
  seconds of time, Mel was conscious once again of Tanya's perceptiveness
  concerning himself. No one else that he could remember had ever had quite
  the same facility for divining his thoughts. It argued an instinctive
  closeness between them.
  He was aware of Tanya watching his face, her eyes gentle, understanding,
  but beyond the gentleness was a woman's strength and a sensuality which
  instinct told him could leap to flame. Suddenly, he wanted their
  closeness to become closer still.
  "You didn't send me far away," Mel answered. "You brought me nearer. At
  this moment I want you very much." As their eyes met directly, he added,
  "In every way.19
  Tanya was characteristically frank. "I want you too." She smiled
  slightly. "I have for a long time."
  His impulse was to suggest that they both leave now, and find some quiet
  place together ... Tanya's apartment perhaps. . . and hang the
  consequences! Then Mel accepted what he already knew; he couldn't go. Not
  yet.
  "We'll meet later," he told her. "Tonight. I'm not sure how much later,
  but we will. Don't go home without me." He wanted to reach out, and seize
  and
 200          AIRPORT

 hold her, and press her body to his, but the traffic of the concourse was
 all around them.
  She reached out, her fingertips resting lightly on his band. The sense of
  contact was electric. "I'll wait," Tanya said. "I'll wait as long as you
  want."
  A moment later she moved away, and was instantly swallowed tip in the press
  of passengers around the Trans America counters.

               6

 Despite her forcefulness when she had talked with Mel a half-hour earlier,
 Cindy Bakersfeld was uncertain what to do next. She wished there were
 someone she could trust to advise her. Should she go to the airport tonight,
 or not?
  Alone and lonely, with the cocktail party babel of the Friends of the
  Archidona Children's Relief Fund around her, Cindy brooded uneasily over
  the two courses of action she could take. Through most of the evening,
  until now, she had moved from group to group, chatting animatedly, meeting
  people she knew, or wanted to. But for some reason tonight-rather more than
  usualCindy was aware of being here unaccompanied. For the past few minutes
  she had been standing thoughtfully, preoccupied, by herself.
  She reasoned again: She didn't feel like going unescorted into dinner,
  which would begin soon. So on the one band she could go home; on the other,
  she could seek out Mel and face a fight.
  On the telephone with Mel she had insisted she would go to the airport and
  confront him. But if she went, Cindy realized, it would mean a
  showdown-almost certainly irreversible and final-between them both.
  Commonsense told her that sooner or later the show-
  
               AIRPORT           201

 down must come, so better to have it now and done with; and there were other
 related matters which had to be resolved. Yet fifteen years of marriage were
 not to be shrugged off lightly like a disposable plastic raincoat. No matter
 how many deficiencies and disagreements there were-and Cindy could think of
 plenty-when two people lived together that long, there were connecting
 strands between them which it would be painful to sever.
  Even now, Cindy believed, their marriage could be salvaged if both of them
  tried bard enough. The point was: Did they want to? Cindy was convinced she
  didif Mel would meet some of her conditions, though in the past he bad
  refused to, and she doubted very much if he would ever change as much as
  she would like. Yet without some changes, continuing to live together as
  they were would be intolerable. Lately there had not even been the
  consolation of sex which once upon a time made up for other inadequacies.
  Something had gone wrong there too, though Cindy was not sure what. Mel
  still excited her sexually; even now, just thinking about him in that way
  was enough to arouse her, and at this moment she was conscious of her body
  stirring. But somehow, when the opportunity was there, their mental
  separation inhibited them both. The result-at least in Cindy-was
  frustration, anger, and later a sexual appetite so strong that she bad to
  have a man. Any man.
  She was still standing alone, in the plush La Salle Salon of the Lake
  Michigan Inn, where tonight's reception for the press was being held. The
  buzz of conversation around her was mostly about the storm and the
  difficulty everyone had had in getting here; but at least -unlike Mel,
  Cindy thought-they had made it. Occasionally there was a mention of
  Archidona, reminding Cindy that she still hadn't found out which Archidona
  -Ecuador or Spain . . . damn you, Mel Bakersfeld! Okay, so I'm not as smart
  as you are-her charity was directed at.
  An arm brushed against hers and a voice said amiably, "No drink, Mrs.
  Bakersfeld? Can I get you one?"
 202          AIRPORT

  Cindy turred. The questioner was a newspaperman named Derek Eden, whom
  she knew slightly. His byline appeared in the Sun-Times frequently. Like
  many of his kind, lie had an easy, confident manner and air of mild
  dissipation. She was aware that each of them had taken note of the other
  on previous occasions.
  "All right," Cindy said. "A Bourbon and water, go lightly on the water.
  And please use my first name; I think you know it."
  "Sure thing, Cindy." The newspaperman's eyes were admiring and frankly
  appraising. Well, Cindy thought, why not? She knew she looked good
  tonight; she had dressed well and made up carefully.
  "I'll be back," Derek Eden assured her, "so don't go away now I've found
  you." He headed purposefully for the bar.
  Waiting, surveying the crowded La Salle Salon, Cindy caught the glance
  of an older woman in a flowered hat. At once Cindy smiled warmly and the
  woman nodded, but her eyes moved on. She was a society page columnist.
  A photographer was beside her and together they were planning pictures
  for what would probably be a full-page layout in tomorrow's paper. The
  woman in the flowered hat motioned several of the charity workers and
  their guests together, and they crowded in, smiling obligingly, trying
  to look casual, but pleased that they had been selected. Cindy knew why
  she had been passed over; alone she was not important enough, though she
  would have been if Mel were there. In the city's life, Mel rated. The
  galling thing was-socially, Mel didn't care.
  Across the room the photographer's light gun flashed; the woman in the
  hat was writing names. Cindy could have cried. For almost every charity
  . . . she volunteered, worked hard, served on the meanest committees, did
  menial chores which more socially prominent women rejected; then to be
  left out like this ...
  Damn you again, Mel Bakersfeld! Damn the bitching snow! And screw that
  demanding, stinking marriagewrecking airport!
 The newspaperman, Derek Eden, was coming back
             AIRPORT           203

 with Cindy's drink and one of his own. Threading his way across the room, he
 saw her watching him and smiled. He looked sure of himself. If Cindy knew
 men, he was probably calculating what his chances were of laying her
 tonight. Reporters, she supposed, knew all about neglected, lonely wives.
  Cindy (lid some calculating of her own concerning Derek Eden. Early
  thirties, she thought; old enough to be experienced, young enough to be
  taught a thing or two and to get excited, which was what Cindy liked. A
  good body from the outward look of him. He would be considerate, probably
  tender; would give as well as take. And he was available; even before he
  left to get the drinks he had already made that clear. Communication didn't
  take long between two reasonably sensitive people with a similar idea.
  A few minutes earlier she had weighed the alternatives of going home or to
  the airport. Now, it seemed, there might be a third choice.
  "There you are." Derek Eden handed her the drink. She glanced at it; there
  was a lot of Bourbon, and he had probably told the barman to pour heavily.
  Reallyl -men were so obvious.
  "Thank you." She sipped, and regarded him across the glass.
  Derek Eden raised his own drink and smiled. "Noisy in here, isrA it?"
  For a writer, Cindy thought, his dialogue was deplorably unoriginal. She
  supposed she was expected to say yes, then the next thing he would come up
  with would be, Why don't we go some place where it's quieter? The lines to
  follow were equally predictable.
  Postponing her response, Cindy took another sip of Bourbon.
  She considered. Of course, if Lionel were in town she would not have
  bothered with this man. But Lionel, who was her storm anchor at other
  times, and who wanted her to divorce Mel so that he, Lionel, could marry
  her, Cindy ... Lionel was in Cincinnati (or was it Columbus?) doing
  whatever architects did when they
 204          AIRPORT

 went on business trips, and wouldn't be back for another ten days, perhaps
 longer.
 I Mel didn't know about Cindy and Lionel, at least not specifically, though
 Cindy had an idea that Mel suspected she had a lover somewhere. stashed
 away. She also had a parallel notion that Mel didn't mind much. It gave him
 an excuse to concentrate on the airport, to the total exclusion of herself;
 that goddanined airport, which had been fifty times worse than a mistress in
 their marriage.
 It had not always been that way.
  Early in their marriage, soon after Mel left the Navy, Cindy had been proud
  of his ambitions. Later, when Mel was rapidly ascending the lower rungs of
  aviation management, she was happy when promotions, new appointments, came
  his way. As Mel's stature grew, so did Cindy's-especially socially, and in
  those days they had social engagements almost every evening. On behalf of
  them both. Cindy accepted invitations to cocktail parties, private dinners,
  opening nights, charity soirees ... and if there were two the same night,
  Cindy was expert at judging which was more important, and turning down the
  other. That kind of socializing, getting to know prominent people, was
  important to a young man on the rise. Even Mel saw that. He went along with
  everything Cindy arranged, without complaining.
  The trouble was, Cindy now realized, she and Mel bad two different
  long-term aims. Mel saw their social life as a means to fulfilling his
  professional ambitions; his career was the essential, the socializing a
  tool which eventually he would dispense with. Cindy, on the other hand.,
  envisaged Mel's career as a passport to an even greater-and higher
  level-social life. Looking back, it sometimes occurred to her that if they
  had understood each other's point of view better in the beginning, they
  might have compromised. Unfortunately, they hadn't.
  Their differences began around the time that Mel-in addition to being
  general manager of Lincoln Tnternational-was elected president of the
  Airport Operators Council.
 When Cindy learned that her husband's activity and
             AIRPORT           205

 influence now extended to Washington, D.C., she had been overjoyed. His
 subsequent summons to the White House, the rapport with President Kennedy,
 led Cindy to assume they would plunge forthwith into Washington society. In
 roseate daydreams she saw herself strolling -and being photographed-with
 Jackie or Ethel or Joan, at Hyannis Port or on the White House lawn.
  It hadn't happened; not any of it. Mel and Cindy had not become involved in
  Washington social life at all, although they could have done so quite
  easily. Instead, they begari-at Mel's insistence-dechning some invitations.
  Mel reasoned that his professional reputation was now such that he no
  longer needed to worry about being "in" socially, a status he had never
  cared for, anyway.
  When she caught on to what was happening, Cindy exploded, and they had a
  first-class row. That was a mistake, too. Mel would sometimes respond to
  reason, but Cindy's anger usually made him stand firm to the point of
  obstinacy. Their dispute raged for a week, Cindy becoming bitchier as it
  progressed, thus making things worse. Being bitchy was one of Cindy's
  failings, and she knew it. Half the time she didn't intend to be that way,
  but sometimes, faced with Mel's indifference, her fiery temper got the
  better of her-as it had on the telephone tonight.
  After the week-long argument, which never really ended, their quarrels
  became more frequent; they also stopped trying to conceal them from the
  children, which was impossible, anyway. Once-to the shame of them
  both-Roberta announced that in future after school she would be going to a
  friend's house first, "because when I stay home, I can't do my homework
  while you're fighting."
  Eventually a pattern was established. Some evenings Mel accompanied Cindy
  to certain social events which he bad agreed on in advance. Otherwise, he
  stayed longer bours at the airport and came home less frequently. Finding
  herself alone much more, Cindy concentrated on what Mel sneered at as her
  "junior league charities" and "silly social climbing."
 Well, maybe at times, Cindy thought, it did look silly
 206          AIRPORT

 to Mel. But she didn't have much else, and it so bappened she enjoyed the
 social status competition-which was what it was, really. It was all very
 well for a man to criticize; men had plenty of activities to occupy their
 time. In Mel's case there was his career, his airport, his
 responsibilities. What was Cindy supposed to do? Stay home all day and
 dust the house?
  Cindy had no illusions about herself so far as mental acuity went. She
  was no great intellect, and she knew that in lots of ways, mentally, she
  would never measure up to Mel. But then, that was nothing new. In their
  early years of marriage, Mel used to find her occasional mild stupidities
  amusing, though nowadays when he derided her-as he had taken to doing
  lately-he seemed to have forgotten that. Cindy was also realistic about
  her former career as an actress-she would never have made the grade to
  stardom, or have come close to it. It was true that, in the past, she
  sometimes implied that she might have done so if marriage had not ended
  her theatrical activity. But that was merely a form of selfdefense, a
  need to remind others-including Mel-that she was an individual as well
  as being the airport manager's wife. Within herself Cindy knew the truth-
  that as a professional actress she would almost certainly not have risen
  above bit parts.
  The involvement in social life, however-in the mise en scMe of local
  society-was something Cindy could handle. It gave her a sense of identity
  and importance. And although Mel scoffed, and denied that what Cindy had
  done wits an achievement, she had managed to climb, to be accepted by
  socially conspicuous people whom she would not have met otherwise, and
  to be involved in events like tonight's ... except that on this occasion
  she needed Mel as escort, and Mel-thinking first of his goddamned
  airport, as always-had let her down.
  Mel, who had so much in the way of identity and prestige, bad never
  understood Cindy's need to carve out some kind of individuality for
  herself. She doubted if he ever would.
 Just the Kime, Cindy had gone ahead. She also had
              AIRPORT          207

 plans for the future which she knew would entail a monstrous family battle
 if she and Mel stayed married. It was Cindy's ambition to have her daughter
 Roberta, and later Libby, presented as debutantes at the Passavant
 Cotillion, glittering apex of the Illinois deb season. As the girls' mother,
 Cindy herself would garner social status.
  She had once mentioned the notion casually to Met, who reacted angrily,
  "Over my dead body!" Debutantes and their silly, simpering mothers, he
  advised Cindy, belonged to an age that was gone. Debutante balls, he
  declared-and thank goodness there were few of them left-were an
  anachronistic perpetuation of a snobbery and class ,tructure which the
  nation was fortunately shedding, though-judging by people who still thought
  as Cindy did-not nearly fast enough. Mel wanted his children to gTow up (he
  told Cindy) with the knowledge that they were equal to others, but not with
  some conceited, misguided notion that they were socially superior. And so
  on.
  Unusual for Mel, whose policy declarations were normally brief and concise,
  he had gone on for some time.
  Lionel, on the other hand, thought the whole thing was a good idea.
  Lionel was Lionel Urquhart. At the moment he hovered alongside Cindy's life
  in the shape of a question mark.
  Curious]),, it was Mel who had brought Cindy and Lionel together to begin
  with. Mel had introduced them at a civic luncheon which Lionel was
  attending because of something architectural he had done for the city, and
  Mel was there because of the airport. The two men had known each other
  casually for years.
  Afterward, Lionel telephoned Cindy, and they met a few times for luncheons
  and dinners, then more frequently, and eventually for the ultimate intimacy
  between a man and a woman.
  Unlike many people who made a practice of extramarital sex, Lionel had
  taken the experience extremely seriously. lie lived alone, having been
  separated from his wife for several years, but was not divorced. Now he
 208          AIRPORT

 wanted to get a divorce, and have Cindy do the same, so they could marry.
 By this time, he knew that Cindy's own marriage was shaky.
 Lionel and his estranged wife had never had children
  a fact, he confided to Cindy, that he greatly regretted. It was not too
  late, he declared, for Cindy and himself to have a child if they married
  soon. Also, he would be more than happy to provide a home for Roberta and
  Libby, and would do his best to be a substitute father.
  Cindy had put off a decision for several reasons. Principally, she hoped
  that relations between herself and Mel would improve, making their
  marriage closer to what it used to be. She could not say with assurance
  that she was still in love with Mel; love, Cindy found, was something you
  became more skeptical about as you grew older. But at least she was used
  to Mel. He was there; so were Roberta and Libby; and, like many women,
  Cindy dreaded a major upheaval in her life.
  Initially, too, she believed that a divorce and remarriage would be
  damaging to her socially. On this point, however, she had now changed her
  mind. Plenty of people had divorces without dropping out of sight so-
  cially, even temporarily, and one saw wives with old husbands one week,
  new ones the next. Cindy even had the impression sometimes that not to
  have been divorced, at least once, was somewhat square.
  It was possible that marriage to Lionel might improve Cindy's status
  socially. Lionel was much more amenable to partying and entertaining than
  Mel. Also, the Urquharts were an old, respected city family. Lionel's
  mother still presided, dowager-like, over a decaying mansion near the
  Drake Hotel, where an antique butler ushered visitors in, and an
  arthritic maid brought afternoon tea on a silver tray. Lionel had taken
  Cindy there for tea one day. Afterward be reported that Cindy had made
  a good impression, and he was sure he could persuade his mother to
  sponsor Roberta and Libby as debutantes when the time came.
  There and then-because her differences with Mel had grown even more
  intense-Cindy might have
             AIRPORT           209

 plunged ahead, committing herself to Lionel, except for one thing. Sexually,
 Lionel was a dying duck.
  He tried hard, and occasionally he managed to surprise her, but most of the
  times they made love he was like a clock whose mainspring is running down.
  He said gloomily one night, after an abortive session in the bedroom of his
  apartment, which had been frustrating for both of them, "You should have
  known me when I was eighteen; I was a young ram." Unfortunately, Lionel was
  now a long way from eighteen; he was forty-eight.
  Cindy envisaged that if she married Lionel, such limited sex as they now
  enjoyed as lovers would drift into nothingness when they came to live
  together. Of course, Lionel would try to make up in other ways-he was kind,
  generous, considerate-but was that enough? Cindy was far from being on the
  wane sexually; she had always been strongly sensual, and lately her desire
  and sexual appetite seemed to have grown. But even if Lionel failed in that
  area, she wasn't batting any better with Mel right now, so what was the
  difference? Overall, Lionel would give her more.
  Perhaps the answer was to marry Lionel Urquhart and do some bedding down on
  the side. The latter might be difficult, especially when she was newly
  married, but if she was cautious it could be managed. Other people she knew
  of-men and women, some in high placesdid the same thing to keep themselves
  satiated physicaUy, and their marriages intact. After all, she had suc-
  cceded in deceiving Mel. He might suspect her in a general sense, but Cindy
  was positive that Mel had no definite knowledge about Lionel or anyone
  else.
  Now, how about tonight? Should she go to the airport for a showdown with
  Mel, as she had considered earlier? Or should she let herself get involved
  for the evening with this newspaperman, Derek Eden, who was standing beside
  her waiting for an answer to his question.
  It occurred to Cindy that perhaps she could manage both.
  She smiled at Derek Eden. "TeU me again. What was it you said?"
 210          AIRPORT

 "I said it was noisy in here."
 "Yes, it ii."
  "I wond,--red if we might skip the dinner and go somewhere quieter."
  Cindy could have laughed aloud. Instead, she nodded. "All right."
  She glanced around at the other hosts and guests of the Archidona
  Children's Relief Fund press party. The photographers had stopped taking
  pictures; so there was really no point in staying any longer. She could
  slip out quietly, and not be noticed.
 Derek Eden asked, "Do you have a car here, Cindy?"
  "No, do you?" Because of the weather, Cindy had come in a taxi.
  'Yes.
  "All right," she said, "I won't leave here with you. But if you're
  waiting in your car, outside, I'll come through the main doors in fifteen
  minutes."
  "Better make it twenty minutes. I'll need to make a couple of phone
  calls."
 "Very well."
 "Do you have any preference? I mean where we'll
 ?1)

 :, That's entirely up to you."
  He hesitated, then said, "Would you like dinner first?"
  She thought amusedly: the "first" was a message-to make quite sure she
  understood what she was getting into.
  "No," C~idy said. "I haven't time. I have to be somewhere else later."
  She saw Derek Eden's eyes glance down, then return to her face. She
  sensed the intake of his breath, and had the impression that be was
  marveling at his own good fortune. "You're the greatest," he said. "I'll
  only believe my good luck when you come out through those doors."
  With that, he turned away and slipped quietly from the La Salle Salon.
  A quarter of an hour later, unnoticed, Cindy followed him.
  She collected her coat and, as she left the Lake Michigan Ina, drew it
  closely around her. Outside it was
              AIRPORT          211

 still snowing, and an icy, shrieking wind swept across the open spaces of
 the Lakeshore and the Outer Drive. The weather made Cindy remember the
 airport. A few minutes ago she had made a firm resolve: she would still go
 there, later tonight; but it was early yet-not quite half-past nine-and
 there was plenty of time-for everything.
  A porter forsook the shelter of the Inn doorway and touched his hat. "Taxi,
  ma'am?"
  "I don't think so."
  At that moment the lights of a car in the parking lot came on. It moved
  forward, skidding once on the loose snow, then came toward the door where
  Cindy was waiting. The car was a Chevrolet, several models old. She could
  see Derek Eden at the wheel.
  The porter held the car door open and Cindy got in. As the door slammed
  closed, Derek Eden said, "Sorry about the car being cold. I had to call the
  paper, then make some arrangements for us. I got here just ahead of
   19
 you.
  Cindy shivered, and pulled her coat even tighter. "Wherever we're going, I
  hope it's warm."
  Derek Eden reached across and took her hand. Since the hand was resting on
  her knee, he held that too. Briefly she felt his fingers move, then he
  returned his band to the wheel. He said softly, "You'll be warm. I
  promise."

               7

 Forty-five minutes before its scheduled departure time of 10 P.m., Trans
 America Airline Flight Two-The Golden Argosy, Captain Vernon Demerest
 commanding -was in the final stages of preparation for its five-thou-
 sand-mile, non-stop journey to Rome.
 212          AIRPORT

  General preparations for the flight had been under way for months and
  weeks and days. Others, more immediate, had continued for the past
  twenty-four hours.
  An airline flight from any major terminal is, in effect, like a river
  joining the sea. Before it reaches the sea, a river is fed by
  tributaries, originating far back in time and distance, each tributary
  joined along its length by others, either greater or smaller. At length,
  at the river's mouth, the river itself is the sum of everything which
  flowed into it. Translated into aviation terms, the river at the sea is
  an airliner at its moment of takeoff.
  The aircraft for Flight Two was a Boeing 707-320B Intercontinental
  Jetliner, registered number N-731-TA. It was powered by four Pratt &
  Wbitney turbofan jet engines, providing a cruising speed of six hundred
  and five miles per hour. The aircraft's range, at maximum weight, was six
  thousand miles, or the straight line distance from Iceland to Hong Kong.
  It carried a hundred and ninety-nine passengers and twenty-five thousand
  U.S. gallons of fuel---enough to fill a good-size swimming pool. The
  aircraft's cost to Trans America Airlines was six and a half rtillion
  dollars.
  The day before yesterday N-731-TA had flown from Diisseldorf, Germany,
  and, two hours out from Lincoln International, an engine overheated. As
  a precaution, the captain ordered it shut down. None of the aircraft's
  passengers were aware that they were operating with three engines instead
  of four; if necessary, the aircraft could have flown on one. Nor was the
  flight even late arriving.
  Trans America Maintenance, however, was advised by company radio. As a
  result, a crew of mechanics was waiting, and whisked the airplane to a
  hangar as soon as passengers and freight were disembarked. Even while
  taxiing to the hangar, diagnostic specialists were at work, seeking out
  the airplane's trouble, which they located quickly.
  A pneumatic duct-a stainless steel pipe around the affected engine-bad
  cracked and broken in flight. The immediate procedure was for the engine
  to be removed
             AIRPORT           213

 and a replacement installed. That was relatively simple. More complicated
 was the fact that for several minutes before the overheating engine was
 shut down, extremely hot air must have escaped into the engine nacelle.
 This heat could conceivably have damaged one hundred and eight pairs of
 wires from the aircraft's electrical system.
  Close examination of the wires showed that while some had been heated,
  none apparently had suffered damage. If a similar condition had occurred
  within an automobile, bus, or truck, the vehicle would have been put back
  into service without question. But airlines took no such chances. It was
  decided that all one hundred and eight pairs of wires must be replaced.
  The work of replacement was highly skilled, but exacting and tcdious
  because only two men at a time could operate in the confined space of the
  engine nacelle. Moreover, cach pair of wires must be identified, then
  connected painstakingly to Cannon plugs. A non-stop, day-and-night effort
  was planned, with teams of electrical mechanics relieving each other.
  The entire job would cost Trans America Airlines thousands of dollars in
  skilled man-hours and lost revenue while the big aircraft was
  unproductive on the ground. But the loss was accepted without question,
  as all airlines accepted such losses in pursuit of high safety standards.
  The Boeing 707--N-731-TA-which was to have flown to th(~. West Coast and
  back before its flight to Rome, was taken out of service. Operations was
  advised, and hastily shuffled schedules to help bridge the gap. A
  connecting flight was canceled and several dozen passengers transferred
  to competitive airlines. There was no substitute aircraft. When it came
  to multimilliondollar jets, airlines did not carry spares.
  Operations, however, urged Maintenance to have the 707 ready for Flight
  Two to Rome, which was then thirty-six hours away from scheduled
  departure. An operations vice-president in New York personally called the
  Trans America base maintenance chief, and was told: "If we can get it
  ready for you, we will." A topnotch foreman and a crack crew of mechanics
  and elec-
   214          AIRPORT

 tricians were already on the job, all of them aware of the importince of
 fi~nishing quickly. A second crew, to relieve the others through the night,
 was being rounded up. Both crews would work extra hours until the job was
 done.
  Contrary to general belief, aircraft mechanics took a close interest in the
  operational flights of airplanes they serviced. After a complex job, or a
  rush one such as this, they would follow the progress of a particular air-
  plane to learn how their work had stood up. It was a source of satisfaction
  to them when, as usually happened, the airplane functioned well. Months
  later they might say lo each other, observing an airplane taxiing in,
  "There's old 842. Remember that time . . . and the trouble we had with her.
  I guess we cured it."
  Through the critical day and a half following discovery of the trouble with
  N-731-TA, work on the airplane, though slow by its nature, continued as
  speedily as possible.
  At length, three hours from Flight Two's departure time, the last of the
  hundred-odd pairs of wires was reconnected.
  It took another hour to replace the engine cowlings and for an engine
  run-up on the ground. Then, before the airplane could be accepted for
  service, an air test was required. By this time, urgent calls from
  Operations demanded: Would N-73 I -TA be ready for Flight Two or not? If
  not, would Maintenance for Chrissake say so, so Sales could be informed of
  a possible long delay, and passengers notified before they left their
  homes.
  His fingcrs crossed, and touching wood, the maintenance chief replied that,
  barring complications on the air test, the aircraft would be available on
  time.
  It was--but only just. The chief Trans America pilot at the base, who had
  been standing by for just that purpose, test flew the airplane, barreling
  up through the storm to clearer altitudes above. He reported on return:
  "You guys down here'd never know it, but the moon's still there," then
  certified N-731-TA as completely airworthy. Executive pilots like that kind
  of assignment; it
             AIRPORT           215

 helped build up their needed flying hours without going far from their
 desks.
  There was so little time left when the chief pflot landed, that he taxied
  the airplane directly to gate forty-seven of the terminal, where-as
  Flight Two, The Golden A rgosy-it was to load.
  Thus Maintenance had come through-as Maintenance did so often-but no
  corners had been cut.
  Once the airplane was at its gate, knots of workers bustled in and around
  it like scurrying elves.
  Food was a major item to go aboard. Seventy-five minutes before departure
  time, Departure Control called the caterer's flight kitchen, ordering
  food for the flight, according to the number of passengers expected. To-
  night the first-class section of Flight Two would have only two vacant
  seats; the economy section would be three quarters full. First-class, as
  usual, was allocated six meals extra; economy had the same number of
  meals as passengers. Thus, first-class passengers could have a second
  dinner if they asked for it; economy passengers couldn't.
  Despite the exact count, a last-minute passenger would always get a meal.
  Spare meals-including Kosher meals-were available in lockers near the de-
  parture gate. If an unexpected passenger went aboard as doors were
  closing, his food tray was passed in after him.
  Liquor stocks, requiring a signed stewardess receipt, came aboard too.
  Liquor for first-class passengers were free; tourist passengers paid a
  dollar a drink (or the equivalent in foreign currency) unless they took
  advantage of a piece of inside information. The information was that
  stewardesses were issued almost no change, sometimes none, and where a
  stewardess could not make change, her instructions were to give the pas-
  senger his or her drinks free. Some regular travelers had drunk free for
  years in tourist class, merely by proffering a fifty- or twenty-dollar
  bill and insisting they had nothing smaller.
  At the lame time that the food and liquor went aboard, other commissary
  supplies were checked and
 216          AIRPORT

 replenished There were several hundred items, ranging from babies' diapers,
 blankets, pillows, airsick bags, and a Gideon Bible to accessories like
 "Tray, beverage service, 8-hole, qty. 5." All were expendable. At the
 conclusion of a flight, airlines never bothered checking inventories.
 Whatever was missing was replaced without question, which was why passengers
 who walked from an airplane with anything portable were seldom stopped.
  Included in commissary supplies were magazines and newspapers. Newspapers
  were usually available on flights-with an exception. The Trans America
  commissary had a standing order: if a newspaper front page featured an air
  disaster, the newspapers were not to go aboard, but were thrown away. Most
  other airlines had the same rule.
  Tonight, on Flight Two, there were plenty of newspapers. The principal news
  was weather-the effect, on the entire Midwest, of the three-day winter
  storm.
  Baggage was now coming aboard Flight Two as passengers weie beginning to
  check in. When a passenger saw his bag disappear at the check-in counter it
  went, by a series of conveyor belts, to a room deep below the departure
  gates which baggage men privately called "the lion's den." It acquired that
  name because (so baggage men confided after several drinks) only the brave
  or innocent would allow a bag they cared about to enter here. Some bags as
  saddened owners could testifycame into tLe lion's den and were never seen
  again.
  In the d(-n, an attendant on duty watched each bag arrive. According to its
  destination label, he flicked a lever on a panel and, a moment later, an
  automatic arm reached out and grabbed the bag, setting it beside others for
  the sam-- flight. From this point, and others, a crew of several men
  transferred all bags to the proper airplanes.
  It was ar, excellent system-when it worked. Unfortunately, it often didn't.
  Bag1c,age hand] ing-airlines conceded privately-was the least efficient
  part of air travel. In an age where human ing(nuity could place a capsule
  the size of a houseboat in outer space, it was a fact that an airline
             AIRPORT           217

 passenger's bag could not be counted on to arrive safely at Pine Bluff,
 Arkansas, or Minneapolis-St. Paul, or even at the same time as the
 passenger. An astounding amount of airline baggage-at least one bag in
 every hundred-went to wrong destinations, was delayed, or lost entirely.
 Executives pointed woefully to the many opportunities for human error
 which existed with baggage handling. Efficiency experts periodically
 examined airline baggage systems, and periodically they were improved. Yet
 no one had come up with a system which was infallible, or even close to
 it. The result was that all airlines employed staffs, at every major
 terminal, whose job was solely to trace missing baggage. Such staffs were
 seldom idle.
  An experienced, cagey traveler did the best he could by making sure that
  the tags which agents or porters put on his bags when he checked in
  showed his correct destination. Often they didn't. With surprising fre-
  quency, wrong tags were slapped on in baste, and had to be changed when
  the error was pointed out. Even then, when the bags disappeared from
  sight, there was the sense of having entered a lottery, and at that point
  the traveler could only pray that some day, somewhere, he would be
  reunited with his luggage again.
  Tonight, at Lincoln International-though no one knew it yet-the baggage
  for Flight Two was already incomplete. Two bags, which should have gone
  to Rome, were at this moment being loaded aboard a flight for Milwaukee.
  Freight was now going aboard Flight Two in a steady stream. So was mail.
  Tonight there were nine thousand pounds of mail in colored nylon bags,
  some for Italian cities for onward transmission to faraway places, whose
  names read like pages from Marco Polo ... Zanzibar, Khartoum, Mombassa,
  Jerusalem, Athens, Rhodes, Calcutta ...
  The heavier-tban-usual mail load was a bonus for Trans America. A flight
  of British Overseas Airways Corporation scheduled to leave shortly before
  Trans America Fli,-,ht Two, had just announced a three-hour delay. The
  post office ramp supervisor, who kept con-
   218          AIRPORT

 stant watch on schedules and delays, promptly ordered a switch of mail from
 the BOAC airliner to Trans America. The British airline would be unhappy
 because carriage of mail was highly profitable, and competition for post
 office business keen. All airlines kept uniformed representatives at airport
 post offices, their job to keep an eye on the flow of mail and insure that
 their own airline got a "fair share"-or more-of the outgoing volume. Post
 office supervisors sometimes had favorites among the airline men, and saw to
 it that business came their way. But in cases of delay, friendships didn't
 count. At such moments there was an inflexible rule: the mail went by the
 faster route.
  Inside thc terminal, at lower level, and a few hundred feet from the Boeing
  707 aircraft which was now Flight Two, was Trans America Control Center
  (Lincoln International). The center was a bustling, jam-packed, noisy
  conglomeration of people, desks, telephones, teletypes, Tel Autographs,
  private line TV, and information boards. Its personnel were responsible for
  directing the preparation of Flight Two and all other Trans America
  flights. On occasions like tonight, with schedules chaotic because of the
  storm, the atmosphere was pandemonic, the scene resembling an old-time
  newspaper city room, as seen by Hollywood.
  In a corner of the control center was the Load Control Desk-the desk top
  invisible beneath a sea of paper-occupied by a young, bearded man with the
  improbable name of Fred Phirmphoot. In his spare time Phirmphoot was an
  amateur abstract painter; recently he had taken to throwing paint on
  canvas, then riding over it with a child's tricycle. He was reputed to
  dabble-at weekends-with LSD, and also suffered from body odor. The last was
  a constant annoyance to his fellow workers in the control center-hot and
  stuffy tonight despite the cold, bitter weather outside-and more than once
  Fred Phirmphoot had been told that he should take a bath more often.
  Yet, paradoxically, Phirmphoot had a keen mathematician's mind, and his
  superiors swore that he was one of the best load control men in the
  business. At the
             AIRPORT           219

 moment he was masterminding the loading of Flight Two.
  An airplane (Fred Phirmphoot would occasionally explain to his bored beat
  friends), "She's a bird that's a teeter-totler, man. If you ain't hep,
  that airplane chick'11 teeter or totter, maybe the twain; but me, baby,
  I don't let it none."
  The trick was to distribute weight correctly through the airplane so that
  its fulcrum point and center of gravity were at predetermined places;
  hence, the aircraft would be balanced, and stable in the air. Fred Phirm-
  phoot's job was to calculate how much could be stowed aboard Flight Two
  (and other flights) and where. No mailbag, no individual piece of
  freight, went into any position in the aircraft hold without his say-so.
  At the same time, he was concerned with cramming in as much as possible.
  "Illinois to Rome, man," Fred was apt to declare, "that's long spaghetti.
  It don't pay off in marmalade."
  He worked with charts, manifests, tabulations, an adding machine,
  last-minute messages, a walkie-taMe, three telephones-and an uncanny
  instinct.
  The ramp supervisor had just asked, by walkie-talkie, for permission to
  load another three hundred pounds of mail in the forward compartment.
  "Roger--dodger," Fred Phirmphoot acknowledged. He shuffled papers,
  checking the passenger manifest which had lengthened in the past two
  hours. Airlines allowed an average weight for passengers-a hundred and
  seventy pounds in winter, ten pounds less in summer. The average always
  worked out, with one exception: when a football team was traveling. The
  husky ballplayers threw all calculations out of joint, and at that time
  load dispatchers added their own estimates, which varied according to how
  well they knew the team. Baseball and hockey players were no problem;
  being smaller they fitted the average. Tonight the manifest showed that
  Flight Two had only normal passengers.
  "It's okay for the mail, baby," Fred Phirmphoot replied into the
  walkie-talkie, "but I want that coffin moved back to the rear
  compartment; from the look of
 220          AIRPORT

 the weight slip, that dead guy was a fatso. Also, there's a packaged
 generator from Westinghouse. Locate that midships; the rest of the freight
 can fit around it."
  Phirmpboot's problems had just been added to by an order from the Crew
  of Flight Two that an extra two thousand pounds of fuel were to be added
  for taxfing and ground running, in addition to the normal reserve for
  that purpose. Out on the airfield tonight, all aircraft were being
  subjected to long delays, with engines running, before takeoff. A jet
  engine, operating at ground level, drank fuel Re a thirsty elephant, and
  Captains Dernerest and Harris didn't want to waste precious gallonage
  which they might require on the way to Rome. At the same time, Fred
  Phirmphoot had to calculate that all that extra fuel, which was now being
  pumped into the wing tanks of N-731-TA, might not be burned before
  takeoff; therefore, some of it could be added to the total takeoff
  weight. The question was, how much?
  There were safety limits for gross weights at takeoff, yet with every
  airline flight the objective was to carry as much as po ssible, to earn
  maximum revenue. Fred Phirmphoot's dirty fingernails danced over his
  adding machine, making hasty computations. He pondered the result,
  fingering his beard, his body odor rather worse than usual.
  The decision about extra fuel was one of many decisions which Captain
  Vernon Demerest had been makini: for the past half hour. Or rather, he
  had been letting Captain Anson Harris make the decisions, then-as check
  captain with the final responsibility-Demerest approved them. Vernon
  Demerest was enjoying his passive role tonight-having someone else do
  most of the work, yet relinquishing none of his own authority. So far
  Dernerest had not faulted any of Anson Harris's decisions, which was not
  surprising since Harris's experience and seniority were almost as great
  as Demerest's own.
  Harris had been dour and huffy when they met for the second time tonight
  in the crew room at the Trans America hai~gar. Dernerest noted with
  amusement that Anson Harris was wearing a regulation shirt, though it was
  on the s.-iiall side, and every now and then Harris's
             AIRPORT           221

 hand wotild go up to ease the collar. Captain Harris had managed to switch
 shirts with an obliging first officer who later related the story
 zestfully to his own captain.
  But afier a few minutes, Harris relaxed. A professional to his bushy,
  graying eyebrows, he was aware that no flight crew could function
  efficiently with hostility in the cockpit.
  In the crew room both captains inspected their mail slots, and there was
  a pile of mail as usual, some of it company bulletins which must be read
  before tonight's flight. The remainder-memos from the chief pilot,
  medical branch, the research department, cartographer's office, and the
  rest, they would take home to go through later.
  While Anson Harris inserted a couple of amendments in his fligtit
  manuals-which Demerest had announced his intenti,)n of checking-Vernon
  Dernerest studied the Crew Schedule Board.
  The Schedule Board was made up monthly. It showed the dates on which
  captains and first and second officers would fly, and on which routes.
  There was a similar board for stewardesses in their crew room down the
  hall.
  Every pilot bid, each month, for the route he wanted
 to fly, and those who were most senior got first choice.
 Demerest invariabl ' Y got what he bid for; so did Gwen
 Meighen, whose seniority among the stewardesses was
 correspondingly high. It was the bidding system which
 made it possible for pilots and stewardesses to make
 mutual layover plans much as Demerest and Gwen had
 done in advance of tonight.
  Anson Harris had finished the hasty amending of his flight manuals.
  Vernon Dernerest grinned. "I guess your manuals are okay, Anson. I've
  changed my mind; I won't inspect them."
  Captain Harris gave no sign, except a tightening around his mouth.
  The second officer for the flight, a young two-striper named Cy Jordan,
  had joined them. Jordan was flight engineer; dso a qualified pilot. He
  was lean and an-
   222          AIRPORT

 gular, with a hollow-cbeeked, mournful face, and always looked as if he
 needed a good meal. Stewardesses heaped extra food upon him, but it never
 seemed to make any difference.
  The first officer who usually flew as second-in-command to Dernerest,
  tonight had been told to stay home, though under his union contract he
  would receive full pay for the round-trip flight. In the first officer's
  absence, Demerest would do some of the first officer duties, Jordan the
  rest. Anson Harris would do most of the flying.
  "Okay," Demerest told the other two, "let's get moving."
  The crew bus, snow-covered, its windows steamed inside, was waiting at
  the hangar door. The five stewardesses for Flight Two were already in the
  bus, and there was a chorus of "Good evening, Captain . . . good evening.
  Captain," as Demerest and Anson Harris clambered in, followed by Jordan.
  A gust of wind. and snow flurries. accompanied the pilots. The bus driver
  hastily closed the door.
  "Hi. girls!" Vernon Demerest waved cheerfully, and winked at Gwen. More
  conventionally, Anson Harris added a "Good evening."
  The wind buffeted the bus as the driver felt his way warily around the
  plowed perimeter track the snowbanks high on either side. Word had
  filtered around the airport of the experience of the United Air Lines
  food truck earlier in the evening, and all vehicle drivers were beinv
  cautious as a result. As the crew bus neared its destination, the bright
  terminal lights were a beacon in the darkness. Farther out on the
  airfield a steady stream of aircraft was taking off and landing.
  The bus stopped and the crew scrambled out, diving for the shelter of the
  nearest door. They were now in the Trans America wing, of the terminal
  at lower level. The passenger departure gates-including gate forty-seven,
  where Fligbt Two was being readied-were above.
  The stewardesses went off to complete their own preflight procedures
  while the three pilots beaded for the Trans America international
  dispatch office.
             AIRPORT           223

  The dispatcher, as always, had prepared a folder with the complex
  information which the flight crew would need. He spread it out on the
  dispatch office counter and the three pilots pored over it. Behind the
  counter a half-dozen clerks were assembling world-wide information on
  aLrways, airport conditions, and weather which other international
  flights of Trans America would require tonight. A similar dispatch room
  for domestic flights was down the ball.
  It was at that point that Anson Harris tapped a preliminary load report
  with his pipestem and asked for the extra two thousand pounds of fuel for
  taxiing. He glanced iu the second officer, Jordan, who was checking fuel
  consumption graphs, and Demerest. Both nodded agreemew, and the
  dispatcher scribbled an order which would be relayed to the ramp fueling
  office.
  The company weather forecaster joined the other four. He was a pale young
  man, scholarly behind rimless glasses, who looked as if he rarely
  ventured out into the weather personally.
  Demercst inquired, "What have the computers given us toniglA, John?
  Something better than here, I hope."
  More and more, airline weather forecasts and flight plans were being
  spewed out by computers. Trans America and other airlines still
  maintained a personal element, with individuals liaising between
  computers and flight crew&, but predictions were that the human
  weathermen would disappear soon.
  The foiecaster shook his head as he spread out several facsimile weather
  charts. "Nothing better until you're ovi.-r mid-Atlantic, I'm afraid. We
  have some improved weather coming in here soon, but since you're going
  east you'll catch up with what's already left us. The storm we're in now
  extends all the way from here to NewfoLndland, and beyond." He used a
  pencil point to trace Crie storm's wide swathe. "Along your route,
  incidentally, Detroit Metropolitan and Toronto airports are both telow
  limits and have closed down."
  The dispatcher scanned a teletype slip which a clerk had handtd him. lie
  interjected, "Add Ottawa; they're closing riglit now."
 224          AIRPORT

  "Beyond raid-Atlantic," the weatherman said, "everything looks good.
  There are scattered disturbances across southern Europe, as you can see,
  but at your altitudes they shouldn't bother you. Rome is clear and sunny,
  and should stay that way for several days."
  Captain Dernerest leaned over the southern Europe map. "How about
  Naples?"
  The weatherman looked puzzled. "Your flight doesn't go there."
 "No, but I'm interested."
  "It's in the same high pressure system as Rome. The weather will be
  good."
 Demerest grinned.
  The young forecaster launched into a dissertation concerning
  iemperatures, and high and low pressure areas, and winds aloft. For the
  portion of the flight which would be over Canada he recommended a more
  northerly course than usual to avoid strong headwinds which would be
  encountered farther south. The pilots listened attentively. Whether by
  computer or human calculation, choosing the best altitudes and route was
  like a game of cht.ss in which intellect could triumph over nature. All
  pilots were trained in such matters; so were company weather forecasters,
  more attuned to individual airline needs than their counterparts in the
  U. S. Weather Bw eau.
  "As soon as your fuel load permits," the Trans America fonz~caster said,
  "I'd recommend an altitude of thirty-three thousand feet."
  The secotid officer checked his graphs; before N731-TA could climb that
  high, they would have to bum off some of their initially heavy fuel load.
  After a lew moments the second officer reported, "We should be able to
  reach thirty-three thousand around Det roit. "
  Anson Harris nodded. His gold ballpoint pen was racing as he filled in
  a flight plan which, in a few minutes' time, lie would file with air
  traffic control. ATC would then tell him whether or not the altitudes he
  sought were available and, if not, what others he might have. Vernon
  Demerest, who normally would have pre-
               AIRPORT           225

 pared his Own flight Plan, glanced over the form when Captain Harris
 finished, then signed it.
  All preparations for Flight Two, it seemed, were going well. Despite the
  storm, it appeared as if The Golden Argosy, pride of Trans America, would
  depart on time.
  It was Gwen Meighen who met the three pilots as they came aboard the
  aircraft. She asked, "Did you hear?"
 Anson Harris said, "Hear what?"
  "We're delayed an hour. The gate agent just had word."
 "Damn!" Vernon Demerest said. "Goddam!"
  "Apparently," Gwen said, "a lot of passengers are on their way, but have
  been held up-I guess because of the snow. Some have phoned in, and
  Departure Control decided to allow them extra time."
  Anson Harris asked, "Is boarding being delayed too?"
  "Yes, Captain. The flight hasn't been announced. It won't be for another
  half-hour, at least."
  Harris shrugged. "Oh, well; we might as well relax." He moved toward the
  flight deck.
 Gwen volunteered, "I can bring you all coffee, if you
  35
 like.
  "I'll get coffee in the terminal," Vernon Demerest said. He nodded to
  Gwen. "Why don't you come with me?"
 She hesitated. "Well, I could."
  "Go ahead," Harris said. "One of the other girls can bring mine, and
  there's plenty of time."
  A minute or two later, Gwen walked beside Vernon Demerest, her heels
  clicking as she kept pace with his strides down the Trans America
  departure wing. They were heading for the main terminal concourse.
  Demerest was thinking: the hour's delay might not be a bad tbing, after
  all. Until this moment, with the essentiat business of Flight Two to
  think about, he had pushed all thoughts of Gwen's pregnancy from his
  mind. But, over coffee and a cigarette, there would be a chance to
  continue the discussion they had begun ear-
   226          AIRPORT

 lier. Perhaps, now, the subject which he bad not broached before-an
 abortion-could be brought into the open.

               8

 Nervously, 1). 0. Guerrero lit another cigarette from the stub of his
 previous one. Despite his efforts to control the motion of his bands, they
 trembled visibly. He was agitated, tense, anxious. As he bad earlier,
 while putting his dynamit,,- bomb together, be could feel rivulets of
 perspiration on his face and beneath his shirt.
  The cause of his distress was time-the time remaining between now and the
  departure of Flight Two. It was running out, remorselessly, like sand
  from an hourglass; and much-too much-of the sand was gone.
  Guerrero was in a bus en route to the airport. Half an hour ago the bus
  had entered the Kennedy Expressway, from which point, normally, there
  would have been a swift, fifteen-minute ride to Lincoln International.
  But the expressway, like every other highway in the state, was impeded
  by the storm, and jammed with traffic. At moments the traffic was halted,
  at other times merely inching along.
  Before departure from downtown, the dozen or so bus passengers-all
  destined for Flight Two-had been told of their flight's delay by one
  hour. Even so, at the present rate of progress, it appeared as if it
  might take another two hours, perhaps three, to get to the airport.
 Others in the bus were worried, too.
  Like D. 0. Guerrero, they had checked in at the Trans America downtown
  terminal in the Loop. Then, they had been in plenty of time, but now, in
  view of the
              AIRPORT          227

 mounting delay, were wondering aloud whether Flight Two would wait for them
 indefinitely, or not.
  The bus driver was not encouraging. In reply to questions, he declared that
  usually, if a bus from a downtown terminal was late, a flight was held
  until the bus arrived. But when conditions got really bad, like tonight,
  anything could happen. The airline might figure that the bus would be held
  up for hours more-as it could beand that the flight should go. Also, the
  driver added, judging by the few people in the bus, it looked as if most
  passengers for Flight Two were out at the airport already. ThaL often
  happened with international flights, he explained; relatives came to see
  passengers off, and drove them out by car.
  The discussion went back and forth across the bus, though D. 0. Guerrero,
  his spindly body hunched into his seat, took no part in it. Most of the
  other passengers appeared to be tourists, with the exception of a voluble
  Italian family-a man and woman with several children -who were talking
  animatedly in their own language.
  "If I were you, folks, I wouldn't worry," the bus driver had announced a
  few minutes earlier. "The traffic ahead looks as if it's loosenin' up some.
  We might just make it."
  So far, however, the speed of the bus had not increased.
  D. 0. Guerrero bad a double seat section, three rows back from the driver,
  to himself. The all-important attach6 case was held securely on his lap. He
  eased forward, as he bad done several times already, straining to peer
  ahead into the darkness beyond the bus; all he could see, through the twin
  arcs cleared by the big, slapping windshield wipers, was what appeared to
  be an endless string of vehicle lights, disappearing into the falling snow.
  Despite his sweating, his pale, thin lips were dry; he moistened them with
  his tongue.
  For Guerrero, "just making it" to the airport in time for Flight Two would
  simply not do. He needed an extra ten or fifteen minutes, at least, to buy
  flight insurance. He cursed himself for not having gone out to the airport
  sooner, and bought the flight insurance he needed in
 228          AIRPORT

 plenty of time. In his original plan, purchasing the insurance at the last
 minute, and thus minimizing any chance of inquiry, seemed a good idea. What
 he had not foreseen was the kind of night this had turned out to bethough he
 ought to have foreseen it, remembering the time of year. It was just that
 kind of thing-overlooking some significant, variable factor-which had dogged
 D. 0. Guerrero through his business enterprises, and time after time brought
 grandiose schemes to naught. The trouble was, he realized, whenever he made
 plans, he convinced himself that everything would go exactly as he hoped;
 therefore he failed to allow for the unexpected. More to the point, he
 thought bitterly, he never seemed able to learn from past experience.
  He supposed that when he got to the airport-assurning Flight Two had not
  already left-he could go to the Trans America flight counter and announce
  himself as being present. Then he would insist on being allowed time to buy
  flight insurance before the flight took off. But it would involve the one
  thing he desperately wanted to avoid: drawing attention to himself, in the
  same way that he had drawn attention already-and for the stupidest omission
  he could possibly have made.
  He had failed to bring any baggage, other than the small, slim attach6 case
  in which he was carrying the dynamite bomb.
  At the check-in counter downtown the ticket agent had asked, "Is that your
  baggage, sir?" He pointed to a large pile of suitcases belonging to a man
  in line behind.
  "No." D. 0. Guerrero hesitated, then held up the small attacb6-briefcase.
  "I . . . er. . . . don't have anything except this."
  The agent's eyebrows went up. "No baggage for a trip to Rome, sir? You
  really are traveling light." He motioned to the attach6 case. "Do you wish
  to check that?"
  "No, thank you." All D. 0. Guerrero wanted at that moment wai his airline
  ticket, and to get away from the counter, and secure an inconspicuous seat
  on the airport bus. But the agent glanced curiously at him a second time,
  and Guerrero knew that, from this moment onward, he would be remembered. He
  had stamped
             AIRPORT           229

 himself indelibly on the ticket agent's memory-all because b,, forgot to
 bring a suitcase, which he could so easily hav.,- done. Of course, the
 reason he bad not done so was instinctive. D. 0. Guerrero knew-as others
 did not--that Flight Two would never reach its destination; therefore no
 baggage was necessary. But he ought to have had baggage, as a cover. Now,
 at the inquiry which would inevitably follow the flight's loss, the fact
 that one passenger-himself-had boarded without baggage, would be
 remembered and commented on. It would underscore whatever other suspicions
 about D. 0. Guerrero investigators might, by that time, have.
  But if there were no wreckage, he reminded himself, what could they
  prove?
  Nothing! The flight insurance people would have to pay.
 Would the bus never get to the airport?
  The children from the Italian family were running noisily up and down the
  aisle of the bus. A few seats back, the mother was still jabbering in
  Italian to the husband; she held a baby which was crying lustily. Neither
  the woman nor the man seemed aware of the baby's crying.
  Guerrero's nerves were stretched and raw. He wanted to seize the baby and
  throttle it; to sbout to the others, Shut up! Shut up!
  Couldn't they sense? . . . Didn't the fools know that this was no time
  for stupid chattering? . . . No time, when Guerrero's whole future-at
  least, his family's future . . . the success of the plan so painstakingly
  worked out . . . everything, everything, was predicated on getting to the
  airport with time to spare.
  One of the running children-a boy of five or six, with an attractive,
  intelligent face-stumbled in the aisle and fell sideways into the empty
  seat beside D. 0. Guerrero. In regaining his balance, the boy's hand went
  out, striking the attach6 case still on Guerrero's lap. The case slipped
  sideways and Guerrero grabbed it. He managed to stop it before it fell,
  then turned to the child, his face contorted to a snarl, his hand raised
  to strike.
 230          AIRPORT

 Wide-eyeO,, the boy regarded him. He said softly,
 "SCUSU,
  With an erfort, Guerrero controlled himself. Others in the bus might be
  waicbing. If he were not careful, be would draw attention to himself
  again. Groping for some of the words he had picked up from Italians who
  had worked for him on construction projects, he said awkwardly, "t troppo
  rumorosa."
  The child nodded gravely. "Si." He stood where he was.
  "All right," Guerrero said. "That's all. Get lost! Se ne vada!"
  "Si," the boy said again. His eyes were uncomfortably
 direct, and ' ~or a moment Guerrero was reminded that
 this child, and others, would be aboard Flight Two.
 Well, it made no difference. There was no point in be
 coming sentimental; nothing would change his intentions
 now. Besides, when it happened, when he pulled the
 string of the attach6 case and the airplane ripped apart,
 everything would be over quickly, before anyone --- espe
 cially the children-had time to know.
  The boy i~urned away, and went back in the bus to his mother.
  At last!---the bus was moving faster . now it was speeding up! Ahead,
  through the windshield, D. 0. Guerrero could see that the traffic had
  thinned, other lights in front were moving quickly. They might ... just
  might . . . arrive at the airport in time for him to buy flight insurance
  without any need to arouse attention. But it was going to be close. He
  hoped the insurance booth would not be busy.
  He notic,-d that the children from the Italian family had returned to
  their seats, and he congratulated himself about not Mtracting attention
  a moment ago. If he had struck the (hild-as he almost had-people would
  have made a fusi. At least he had avoided that. It was still a pity that
  h(. had got himself noticed when checking in, though when he thought
  about it, he supposed that no irreparable harm bad been done.
 Or had i--?
 A new worry nagged him.
             AIRPORT           231

  Supposing the ticket agent who had been curious about the absence of any
  baggage remembered the incident again, after the bus bad gone. Guerrero
  knew he had appeared nervous at the time; supposing the agent had
  noticed, had later become suspicious. The agent would talk to someone
  else, a super-visor perhaps, who might already have telephoned the
  airport. Even at this moment, someone--the police?-might be waiting for
  the bus to arrive; to interrogate D. 0. Guerrero; to open and inspect his
  single, small attach6 case with the damning evidence inside. For the
  first time Guerrero wondered what would happen if he were caught. It
  would mean arrest, imprisonment. Then he thought: before he would allow
  that to happen . . . if he were accosted, if exposure seemed imminent .
  . . he would pull the loop of string on the outside of the case and blow
  himself, along with everyone nearby, to pieces. His hand went out.
  Beneath the attach6 case handle he touched the loop of string and held
  it. It was reassuring . . . Now, for the moment, he would try to think
  of something else.
 He wondered if Inez had yet found his note.
 She had.

  Inez Guerrero came tiredly into the miserable 51st Street apartment, and
  slipped off her shoes, which had been hurting, and her coat and kerchief,
  which were soaked from melted snow. She was aware of a cold coming, and
  an all-engulfing weariness. Her work as a waitress had been harder than
  usual today, the customers meaner, the tips smaller. Besides, she was not
  yet accustomed to it, which took a greater toll.
  Two years ago, when the Guerreros lived comfortably in a congenial home
  in the suburbs, Inez, though never beautiful, had been a
  pleasant-appearing, well-preserved woman. Since then, ravages of time and
  circumstance had come swiftly to her face, so that where once she seemed
  younger than she was, now she looked considerably older. Tonight, if Inez
  had been in a house of her own, she would have sought the solace of a hot
  bath, which always seemed to relax her in times of trouble-
   232          AIRPORT

 of which there had been plenty in the Guerreros' married life. Ahliough
 there was a bathroom of sorts down the hall, which three apartments shared,
 it was unheated and drafty, with old paint peeling, and a gas water heater
 which had to be appeased with quarters. The thought of it defeated her. She
 decided she would sit still for a while in the shabby living room, then go
 to bed. She had no idea where her husband was.
  It was some time before she noticed the note on the living-room table.

   I won't be home for a few days. I'm going away. I expe(t to have some
   good news soon which will sui prise you.

  Few things surprised Inez where her husband was concerned; "ne had always
  been unpredictable and, more recently, irrational. Good news would
  certainly be a surprise, but she couldn't bring herself to believe that
  there would be any. Inez bad watched too many of her husband's ambitious
  schemes totter and collapse to believe in tho likelihood of one more
  possibility succeeding.
  But the first part of the note puzzled her. Where was D.O. going "for a few
  days"? Equally mystifying: What did he intend to use for money? The night
  before last the Guerreros pooled the last of the money they had in the
  world. The total was twenty-two dollars and some cents. Besides the money,
  they had only one thing left worth pawning; it belonged to Inez-her
  mother's ring, and so far sne had resisted parting with it. It might have
  to go soon.
  Of the twenty-two dollars-odd, Inez bad taken fourteen, to use for food and
  as a token payment toward the rent. She bad seen the desperation in D.O.'s
  face as he pocketed the remaining eight dollars and small change.
  Inez decided to stop puzzling, and to go to bed as she had planned. She was
  too weary even to worry about how her children were faring, though she had
  not heard from her sister in Cleveland-with whom the children were
  staying-for more than a week. She turned out the
             AIRPORT           233

 single light in the living room and went into the cramped, shabby bedroom.
  She had trouble finding her nightgown. Some of the contents of the rickety
  dressing chest seemed to have been moved around. Eventually she found the
  nightgown in a drawer with three of D.O.'s shirts; they were the last he
  had, so wherever he had gone, he had not taken a change of clothing. Under
  one of the shirts a folded sheet of yellow paper caught her eye. She took
  it out and opened it.
  The yellow sheet was a printed form which had been filled in by typewriter;
  what Inez was holding was a carbon copy. When she saw what it was, she sat
  down, unbelieving, on the bed. To make sure she had not misunderstood, she
  read the contents of the form again.
  It was a time-payment contract between Trans America Airlines and D. 0.
  "Buerrero"-the name, she noticed, was misspelled. The contract acknowledged
  that "Buerrero" had received a round-trip ticket to Rome, economy class;
  that he had made a down payment of forty-seven dollars, and hereby promised
  to pay the balance of four hundred and twenty-seven dollars, plus interest,
  in installments over twenty-four months.
 It didn't make sense.
  Inez stared dazedly at the yellow form. Within her mind, questions chased
  one another.
  Why did D.O. need an air ticket at all? And if a ticket, why to Rome? And
  what about the money? He couldn't possibly pay the installments, though
  that part, at least, was understandable. There had been plenty of other
  obligations D. 0. Guerrero incurred that he couldn't meet; debts never
  disturbed him, as they did Inez. But apart from the debt, where had the
  forty-seven dollars down payment come from? The form acknowledged receipt;
  the money had been paid. Yet two nights ago, D.O. declared that he had no
  more money than they pooled, and whatever else he might do, Inez knew he
  never Iii-, I to her.
  Yet that forty-seven dollars came from somewhere. Where?
 Suddenly, she remembered the ring; it was gold with
 234          AIRPORT

 a single diamond in a platinum setting. Until a week or two ago, Inez wore
 it regularly, but recently her hands had swollen and she took the ring off,
 leaving it in a small box in one of the bedroom drawers. For the second time
 tonight she searched the drawers. The box was there--empty. Obviously, to
 get the forty-seven dollars, D.O. had pawned the ring.
  Her first reaction was regret. To Inez, the ring had meant something; it
  was a last tenuous link between herself and the past, her scattered family,
  her dead mother whose memory she revered. More realistically: the ring,
  though not exceptionally valuable, had been a last resort. While it was
  there, there was the knowledge that however bad things became, the ring
  would always provide a few days more of living. Now it was gone, and along
  with it, the minor reassurance.
  Yet knowing where the down payment came from for the airline ticket, still
  provided no answer to the question-why'. Why an air journey? Why to Rome?
  Still seated on the bed, Inez applied herself to thinking carefully. For
  the moment, she ignored her tiredness.
  Inez was not a highly intelligent woman. If she had been, probably she
  would not have endured marriage to D. 0. Guerrero for almost twenty years;
  and even now, if better equipped mentally, she would have been more than a
  coffeehouse waitress at a paltry wage. But occasionally, through slow,
  careful reasoning aided by instinct, Inez could reach right conclusions.
  Especial.ly where her husband was concerned.
  Now, instinct more than reason warned her that D. 0. Guerrero was in
  trouble-more serious trouble than they had yet encountered. Two things
  convinced her: his irrationality of late, and the length of his intended
  journey; in the Guerrero's present circumstances, only some monumental,
  desperate undertaking could require a trip to Rome. She went to the living
  room and returned with the note, which she read again. Over the years there
  had been many notes; Inez sensed that this one did not mean what it said.
 Beyond that, her reasoning failed to go. But she had
             AIRPORT           235

 the feeling, a conviction growing as each minute passed, that there must be
 something, ought to be something, she should do.
  It did not occur to Inez to abdicate entirely; to abandon D.O. to the
  outcome of whatever new folly he might have begun. She was essentially a
  simple soul with an uncomplicated nature. Eighteen years ago she accepted
  D. 0. Guerrero "for better or worse." That it had turned out to be mostly
  "worse" did not, as Inez saw it, change her responsibility as a wife.
  Her cautious, measured reasoning continued. She supposed the first thing to
  do was find out if D.O. had already left by air; if not, perhaps there was
  time to stop him. Inez had no idea how much of a start D.O. had, or how
  many hours ago his note to her was written. She looked again at the yellow
  time-payment form; it said nothing about when the flight would be, or its
  departure time, thOLIgh she could telephone the airline-Trans America. As
  quickly as she could, Inez began putting on the clothes which, a few
  minutes earlier, she had taken off.
  Her outdoor shoes hurt her feet again, and her coat was still sodden and
  uncomfortable as she went down the narrow stairs from the apartment to the
  street. In the mean lower hallway, snow had blown under the outer door and
  covered the bare boards of the floor. Outside, Inez saw, the snow was even
  deeper than when she came in. The cold, bleak wind assaulted her as she
  left the building's shelter, whipping more snow into her face.
  There \vas no telephone in the Guerreros' apartment, and although Inez
  could have used a pay phone in the lunch counter on the lower floor, she
  wanted to avoid a meeting with the proprietor, who was also the building
  landlord. He bad threatened eviction tomorrow if the Guerreros' arrears of
  rent were not paid in full. That was something else which Inez bad pushed
  from her mind tonight, and which-if D.O. failed to return by morning-she
  would have to face alone.
 A drugstore, with a pay phone, was a block and a
 236          AIRPORT

 half away. Picking her way through deep snow on uncleared sidewalks, Inez
 headed there.
 The time was a quarter to ten.
  The drugstore telephone was in use by two teen-age girls, and In,--z
  waited almost ten minutes for it to be free. Then, when she dialed the
  Trans America number, a recording informed her that all lines to
  Reservations were busy, and would she please wait. She waited while the
  recording repeated itself several times before a brisk woman's voice
  declared that she was Miss Young, and could she help?
  "Please," Inez said, "I want to ask about flights to Rome."
  As if a button bad been pressed, Miss Young replied that Trans America
  had direct non-stop flights from Lincoln International to Rome on
  Tuesdays and Fridays; through New York there were connections daily, and
  did the caller wish to make a reservation now?
  "No," Inez said. "No, I'm not going. It's about my husband. Did you say
  there was one on Fridays ... a flight ... tonight?"
  "Yes, madam-our Flight Two, The Golden Argosy. It departs at ten o'clock
  local time, except that tonight the flight has been delayed one hour, due
  to weather conditions."
  Inez could see the drugstore clock. By now, it was nearly five past ten.
  She said quickly, "You mean the flight hasn't gone yet?"
 "No, madam, not yet."
  "Please . . ." As she often did, Inez found herself groping for words.
  "Please, it's important for me to find out if my husband is on that
  flight. His name is D. 0. Guerrero, and. . ."
  "I'm soM,; we're not permitted to give out that information." Miss Young
  was polite but firm.
  "I don't think you understand, miss. It's my husband I'm asking al)out.
  This is his wife."
  "[ do unjerstand, Mrs. Guerrero, and I'm sorry; but it's a conipz.ny
  rule."
 Miss Youag, and others like her, were well drilled in
             AIRPORT           237

 the rule and understood its reason. Many businessmen took secrctaries or
 mistresses along on air trips, listing them as wives, to take advantage
 of family plan fare reductions. In the past, a few suspicious, genuine
 wives had checked up, causing trouble for the airlines' customers-the men.
 Later, it was the men who complained bitterly about breaches of
 confidence, with the result that airlines nowadays made a policy of not
 disclosing passenger names.
 Inez began, "Isn't there any way . .
 "There really isn't."
 "Oh, dear."
  "Do I understand," Miss Young inquired, "that you think your husband
  might be leaving on Flight Two, but you're not sure?"
 "Yes, that's right."
  "Then the only thing you might do, Mrs. Guerrero, is to go out to the
  airport. Probably the flight hasn't boarded yet; so if your husband is
  there, you could see him. Even if the flioht has boarded, they might help
  you at the departure gate. But you'd have to hurry."
  "All rieht," Inez said. "If that's the only thing, I suppose Id better
  try." She had no idea how she would get to the airport--more than twenty
  miles a.way-in less than aa hour, in the storm.
  "Just a moment." Miss Young sounded hesitant, her voice more human, as
  if some of Inez's distress had penetrated through the phones. "I really
  shouldn't do this, Mrs. Guerrero, but I'll give you a little tip."
 "Please. '
  "At the airport, when you get to the departure gate, don't say you think
  your husband is aboard. Say you know he's aboard and you'd like to speak
  to him. If he isn't, you'll find out. If he is, it will make it easier
  for the gate agent to tell you what you want to know."
 "Thank you," Inez said. "Thank you very much."
  "You're entirely welcome, madam." Miss Young was her mach~ne-like self
  once more. "Good night, and thank you for calling Trans America."
  Replacing the telephone, Inez remembered something she had noticed coming
  in. A taxi was parked outside;
 238          AIRPORT

 now she saw the driver. In a yellow, peaked cap, he was at the drugstore
 soda fountain, in conversation with another man.
  A taxi would be costly, but if she was to get to the airport by 1 t P.m.,
  it was probably the only means.
  Inez crossed to the soda fountain and touched the driver on the arm.
  "Excuse me."
  The cab driver turned. "Yeah, waddya want?" He had a mean, flabby face, and
  needed a shave.
  "I was wondering how much it would cost for a taxi to the airport."
  The driver inspected her through narrowed, calculating eyes. "From here,
  maybe nine, ten dollars on the meter."
  Inez turned away. It was too much-more than half the small amount of money
  she had remaining; and she was not even sure that D.O. would be on the
  flight.
  "Hey, you! Hold it!" The cabbie downed a Coke he had been drinking and
  hurried after Inez. He caught her at the door. "How much dough ya got?"
  "It isn't that." Inez shook her head. "It's just ... it's more than I can
  afford."
  The cabbie snorted, "Suma you people think ya can get them kinda rides for
  peanuts. 'S long drag out there."
 "Yes, I know."
 "Why yo u wanna go? Whyn't yer get th' bus?"
  "It's important; I have to be there . . . ought to be there ... by eleven
  o'clock."
  "Here," the cab driver said, "maybe it's bargain night. I'll take yer for
  seven, even."
  "Well . ~ ." Inez still hesitated. Seven dollars was most of what she had
  planned to offer the apartment landlord tomorrow in an attempt to appease
  him about the arrears of rent. She would have no wages from the coffee
  house until the end of next week.
  The cab driver said impatiently, " 'S th' best offer you'll get. You wanna
  take it, or not?"
 "Yes," Inez said. "Yes, I'll take it."
 "Okay, Jcssgo."
 While Inez climbed into the cab unaided, the driver
             AIRPORT           239

 smirked a~, he used a whisk broom to clear snow from the windsliield and
 windows. When Inez approached him in the drugstore, he was already off
 duty and, since he lived near the airport, was about to dead-head home.
 Now, he had a fare. Also, he lied in declaring the meter fare to th,.~
 airport to be nine or ten dollars; it was actually less than seven. But
 the lie made it possible to concoct what his passenger believed to be a
 deal, so now he could drive with his flag up, and pocket the seven dollars
 foi himself. High-flagging was illegal, but no cop, the diiver reasoned,
 would be likely to spot him on a lousy ni,)ht like this.
  Thus, the cab driver thought smugly, in a single move he had managed to
  cheat both this stupid old crone of a passenger and his son-of-a-bitch
  employer.
  As they moved off, Inez asked anxiously, "Are you sure you can get there
  by eleven o'clock?"
  Over his shoulder the driver snarled, "I said so, didn't 1, so lemme do
  the drivin'."
  Just the same, he conceded to himself, he was not certain that they
  would. The roads were bad, the other traffic slow. They might just make
  it, but it was going to be close.

  Th , irty-five minutes later, the taxi containing Inez was
 crawling tediously along the snowbound, still-plugged
 Kennedy Expressway. Sitting tensely on the back seat,
 her fingers working nervously, Inez was wondering how
 much longer the journey would last.
  At the same moment, the airport bus containing the contingenr. of Flight
  Two passengers swung on to the departure ramp entrance at Lincoln
  International. The bus, after shaking itself free from the slow-moving
  traffic newer town, had continued to make good time; now, the c~ock above
  the terminal showed a quarter to eleven.
  As the bus stopped, D. 0. Guerrero was tirst to alight.
 240          AIRPORT

               9

 "Bring along that portable public address system," Elliott Freem,~jitle
 commanded. "We may be glad of it."
  The Meadowood community meeting in the Sunday school hall of Meadowood
  First Baptist Church was sizzling with excitement which Lawyer Freemantle
  had skillfully generated. The meeting was also about to move on to
  Lincoln International Airport.
  "Don't hand me any bilgewater about it being too late, or not wanting to
  go," Elliott Freemantle had exhorted his audience of six hundred a few
  minutes earlier. He stood before them confidently, impeccable as ever in
  his ,-Iegant Blue Spruce suit and gleaming alligator shoes; not a single
  barber-styled hair was out of place, and be radiated confidence. The
  meeting was enthusiastically with him now, and the rougher tongued he
  was, it seemed, the more they liked him.
  He continued, "And don't let's have a lot of footling excuses for not
  going. I don't want to hear about babysitters, mothers-in-law left alone,
  or stews on the stove simmering, because I couldn't care less; neither-at
  this moment-should you. If your car's stuck in the snow, leave it there
  and ride in someone else's. The point is: I'm going to the airport
  tonight, on your behalf, to make myself obnoxious." Ile paused as another
  aircraft thundered overhead. "By God!-it's time somebody did." The last
  remark had caused applause and laughter.
  "I need your support, and I want you there-all of you. Now I'll ask you
  a plain, straight question: Are you coming?"
  The halt resounded to a roar of, "Yes!" People were on their feet,
  cheering.
  "All right," Freemantle said, and the hall had hushed. "Let's get a few
  things clear before we go."
  He had ilready told them, he pointed out, that legal proceedings must be
  the basis of any action to gain relief for Meadowood community from its
  over-
               AIRPORT           241

 whelmine airport noise. Such legal proceedings, however, sh~)uld not be
 the kind which nobody noticed, or which took place in some out-of-the-way,
 unpeopled courtroom. Instead, they must be conducted in the spotlight of
 public attention and public sympathy.
  "How do we get that kind of attention and sympathy?" Lawyer Freemantle
  paused, then answered his own question.
  "We get it by making our point of view known in such a way that it
  becomes newsworthy. Then, and only then, can the attention-getting
  media-press, radio, and television--feature our viewpoint prominently,
  in the kind of way we want."
  The press were good friends, he declared. "We do not ask them to share
  our point of view, merely to report it fairly, which-in my
  experience-they always do. But it helps out reporter friends if a cause
  can engender some drama; that way, they get a better story."
  The three reporters at the press table were grinning as Freemantle added,
  "We'll see if we can stage some drama for them tonight."
  While E lliott Freemantle was speaking, he was also
 observing shrewdly the progress of the legal forms, re
 taining himself as legal counsel for individual home
 owners, which were now circulating through the hall.
 Many of the forms-at least a hundred, he estimated
 had been signed and passed forward. He had watched
 ballpoint pens appear, husbands and wives bend over
 the documents to sign jointly, thus committing each
 family to payment of a hundred dollars. Lawyer Free
 mantle did some happy calculation: a hundred com
 pleted retainers meant ten thousand dollars for himself.
 Not a bad fee for--so far-an evening's work, and in
 the end the total fee would be a great deal more.
  While the forms were still circulating, he decided, he would continue
  talking for a few minutes longer.
  As to what was going to happen at the airport tonight, he instructed his
  listeners, they were to leave that to him. He hoped there would be a
  confrontation with the airport's management; in any case, he intended to
  stage a demonstration-within the airport terminalwhich people would
  remember.
 242          AIRPORT

  "All I ask is that you stay together and that you raise your voices only
  when I tell you."
  Emphatically, he cautioned, there would be no disorder. No one must be able
  to say next day that the Meadowood anti-noise delegation violated any law.
  "Of course"-Freemantle smiled suggestively-"we may get in the way and cause
  some inconvenience; I understand that the airport is extremely busy
  tonight. But we can't help that."
  There was laughter again. He sensed that people were ready to go.
  Still another aircraft reverberated overhead, and he waited until the sound
  had died.
  "Very we'll Let us be on our way!" Lawyer Freemantle raised his hands like
  a jet-age Moses, and mixquoted: "For I have promises to keep, with much ado
  before I sleep."
  The laughter changed to renewed cheering, and people began moving toward
  the doors.
  It was then that he had noticed the portable p.a. system, borrowed from the
  Meadowood First Baptist Church, and instructed that it be brought along.
  Floyd Zanetta, the meeting's chairman-virtually ignored since Elliott
  Freemantle eclipsed him in attention-hurried to comply.
  Freemantle himself was stuffing signed retainer forms into his briefcase.
  A quick count showed that he had underestimated earlier-there were over a
  hundred and sixty forms, or more than sixteen thousand dollars' worth of
  collectible fees. In addition, many who had come forward to shake his hand
  within the past few minutes, assured him they would mail their own forms,
  along with checks, in the morning. Lawyer Freemantle glowed.
  He had no real plan as to what would happen at the airport, any more than
  he had arrived tonight with a fixed idea about how to take over this
  meeting. Elliott Freemantle disliked fixed ideas. He preferred to impro-
  vise, to get situations rolling, then direct them this way or that, to his
  own advantage. His freewheeling methods had worked once already this
  evening; he saw no reason why they should not do so again.
             AIRPORT           243

  The ma~i thing was to keep these Meadowood homeowners convinced that they
  had a dynamic leader who would eventually produce results. Furthermore,
  they must remain convinced until the four quarterly payments, which the
  legal retainer agreements called for, were made. After that, when Elliott
  Freemantle had his money in the bank, the opinions wore less important.
  So he had to keep this situation lively, he reasoned, for ten or eleven
  months-and he would do it. He would give these people all the dynamism
  they could want. There would be need for some more meetings and
  demonstrations like tonight's because those made news. Too often, court
  proceedings didn't. Despite what he had said a few minutes ago about
  legal proceedings being a base, any sessions in court were likely to be
  unspectacular and possibly unprofitable. Of course, he would do his best
  to introduce some histrionics, though quite a few judges nowadays were
  wise to Lawyer Freemantle's attention-creating tactics, and curtailed
  them sternly.
  But there were no real problems, providing he remembered--as he always
  did in these affairs-that the most important factor was the care and
  feeding of Elliott Freemantle.
  He could see one of the reporters, Tomlinson of the Tribune, using a pay
  phone just outside the hall; another reporter was nearby. Good! It meant
  that downtown city desks were being alerted, and would cover whatever
  happened at the airport. There would also, if earlier arrangements
  Freemantle had made worked out, be some TV coverage, too.
 The crowd was thinning. Time to go!

               10

 Near the airport's floodlighted main entrance, the flashing red beacon of
 the state police patrol car died.
 244          AIRPORT

 The patrol car, which had preceded Joe Patroni from the site of the
 wrecked tractor- trailer, slowed, and the state trooper at the wheel
 pulled over to the curb, waving the TWA maintenance chief past. Patroni
 accelerated. As his Buick Wildcat swept by, Patroni waved his cigar in
 salutation and honked his hom twice.
  Although the last stage of Joe Patroni's journey had been accomplished
  with speed, over-all it had taken more than three hours to cover a
  distance-from his home to the airport-which normally took forty minutes.
  Now, he hoped, he could make good some of the lost time.
  Fighting the snow and slippery road surface, he cut swiftly through the
  stream of terminal-bound traffic and swung onto a side road to the
  airport's hangar area. At a sign, "TWA Maintenance," he wheeled the Buick
  sharply right. A few hundred yards farther on, the airline's maintenance
  hangar loomed towering and massive. The main doors were open; he drove
  directly in.
  Inside the hangar a radio-equipped pickup truck, with driver, was
  waiting; it would take Patroni onto the airfield-to the miied
  A6reo-Mexican jet, still obstructing runway three zero. Stepping from his
  car, the maintenance chief paused only long enough to relight his cigar
  -ignoring "no smoking" regulations-then hoisted his stocky figure into
  the truck cab. He instructed the driver, "Okay, son, push that needle
  round the dial."
  The truck raced away, Patroni obtaining radio clearance from the tower
  as they went. Once away from the lighted hangar area, the driver stayed
  close to taxi lights, the only guide-in the white-tinted gloom-to where
  paved surfaces began and ended. On instructions from the tower they
  halted briefly near a runway while a DC-9 of Delta Air Lines landed in
  a flurry of snow and rolled by with a thunder of reversed jet thrust. The
  ground controller cleared them across the runway, then added, "Is that
  Joe Patroni?"
 "Yep.11
  There was an interval while the controller dealt with other traffic,
  then: "Ground control to Patroni. We have a message from the airport
  manager's office. Do you read?"
             AIRPORT           245

 "This's Patroni. Go ahead."
  "Message begins: Joe, I'll bet you a box of cigars against a pair of ball
  tickets that you can't get that stuck airplane clear of three zero
  tonight, and I'd like you to win. Signed, Mel Bakersfeld. End of
  message."
  Joe Patroni chuckled as he depressed the transmit button. "Patroni to
  ground control. Tell him he's on."
  Replacing the radio mike, he urged the truck driver, "Keep her moving,
  son. Now I got me an incentive."
  At the blocked intersection of runway three zero, the A6reo-Mexican
  maintenance foreman, Ingram-whom Mel Bakersfeld had talked with
  earlier-approached the pickup as it stopped. The foreman was still
  huddled into a parka, shielding his face as best he could from the biting
  wind and snow.
  Joe Patroni bit off the end of a fresh cigar, though this time without
  lighting it, and descended from the truck cab. On the way out from the
  hangar he had changed from the overshoes he had been wearing into heavy
  fleece-lined boots; high as the boots were, the deep snow came over them.
  Patroni pulled his own parka around him and nodded to Ingram. The two men
  knew each other slightly.
  "Okay," Patroni said; he had to shout to make himself heard above the
  wind. "Gimme the poop."
  As Ingram made his report, the wings and fuselage of the stalled Boeing
  707 loomed above them both, like an immense ghostly albatross. Beneath
  the big jet's belly a red hazard light still winked rhythmically, and the
  collection of trucks and service vehicles, including a crew bus and
  roaring power cart, remained clustered on the taxiway side of the
  aircraft.
  The A6reo-Mexican maintenance foreman summarized what had been done
  already: the removal of passengers, and the first abortive attempt to get
  the airplane moving under its own power. Afterward, he informed Joe
  Patroni, as much weight had been taken off as possible-freight, mail,
  baggage, with most of the fuel load being sucked out by tankers. Then
  there had been a second attempt to blast the airplane out, again with its
  own jets, which also ended in failure.
 Chewing his cigar instead of smoking it-one of Pa- 246          AIRPORT

 troni's rare concessions to fire precaution, since the smell of ilviation
 kerosene was strong-the TWA maintenance chief moved closer to the
 aircraft. Ingram followed, and the two were joined by several ground
 crewmen who emerged from the shelter of the crew bus. As Patroni surveyed
 the scene, one of the crewmen switched on portable floodlights which were
 rigged in a semicircle in front of the airplane's nose. The lights
 revealed that the main landing gear was partially out of sight, embedded
 in a covering of black mud beneath snow. The aircraft had stuck in an area
 which was normally grass-covered, a few yards off runway three zero, near
 an intersecting taxiway-the taxiway which the A6.reo-Mexican pilot had
 missed in the dark and swirling sil,-,)w. It was sheer bad luck, Patroni
 realized, that at that point the ground must have been so waterlogged
 that. not even three days of snow and freezing temperatures had been
 sufficient to harden it. As a result, the 1wo attempts to blast the
 airplane free with its own power- had merely succeeded in settling it
 deeper. Now, nacelles of the four jet engines beneath the wings were
 uncomfortably close to ground level.
  Ignoring the snow, which swirled about him Eke a scene from South with
  Scott, Patroni considered, calculating the possibilities of success.
  There was still a worthwhile chance, he decided, of getting the airplane
  out by use of its own engine power. It would be the fastest way, if it
  could be done. If not, they would have to employ giant lifting
  bags--eleven altogether, made of nylon fabric-placed under wings and
  fusela,ge, and inflated by pneumatic blowers. When the bags were in
  place, heavy-duty jacks would be used to raise the aircraft's wheels,
  then a solid floor built under them. But the process would be long,
  difficult, and wearying. Joe Patroni hoped it could be avoided.
  He announced, "We gotta dig deep and wide in front of the gear. I want
  two six-foot-wide trenches down to where the wheels are now. Coming
  forward from the wheels, we'll level the trenches at first, then slope
  'ern up gradually." He swung to Ingram. "That's a lot of digging.11
 The foreman nodded. "Sure is."
             AIRPORT           247

  "When we've finished that part, we'll start the engines and pull full
  power with all four." Patroni motioned to the stalled, silent aircraft.
  "That should get her moving forward. When she's rolling. and up the slope
  of the trenches, we'll swing her this way." Stomping with the heavy boots
  he bad put on in the truck, he traced an elliptical path through the snow
  between the soft ground and the taxiway paved surface. "Another
  thing-let's lay big timbers, as many as we can, in front of the wheels.
  You got any at all?"
 "Some," Ingram said. "In one of the trucks."
  "Unload 'em, and send your driver around the air-port to round up as many
  as he can. Try all the airlines, and airport maintenance."
  The ground crewmen nearest Patroni and Ingram hailed others, who began
  scrambling from the crew bus. Two of the men rolled back a snow-covered
  tarpaulin on a truck containing tools and shovels. The shovels were
  passed around among figures, moving and shadowy outside the semicircle
  of bright lights. The blowing snow, at times, made it difficult for the
  men to see each other. They waited for orders to begin.
  A boarding ramp, leading to the forward cabin door of the 707, had been
  left in place. Patroni pointed to it. "Are the flyboys still aboard?"
  Ingram grunted. "They're aboard. The goddarn captain and first officer."
  Patroni looked at him sharply. "They been giving you trouble?"
  "It wasn't what they gave me," Ingram said sourly, "it's what they
  wouldn't. When I got here, I wanted 'em to pull full power, the way you
  just said. If they'd done it the first time. I reckon she'd have come
  out; but they didn't have the guts, which is why we got in deeper. The
  captain's made one big screwup tonight, and knows it. Now he's scared
  stiff of standing the ship on its nose."
  Joe Patroni grinned. "If I were him, I might feel the same way." He had
  chewed his cigar to shreds; he threw it into the snow and reached inside
  his parka for another. "Ill talk to the captain later. Is the interpbone
  rigged?"
 "Yeah.,,
 248          AIRPORT

  "Call the flight deck, then. Tell 'em we're working, and I'll be up there
  soon."
  "Right." As he moved closer to the aircraft, Ingram called to the twenty
  or so assembled ground crewmen, "Okay, you guys; let's get digging!"
  Joe Paironi seized a shovel himself and, within minutes, the group was
  shifting mud, earth, and snow.
  When he had used the fuselage interphone to speak to the pilots iri their
  cockpit high above, Ingram-with the aid of a riechanic--began groping
  through icy mud, with cold numbed hands, to lay the first of the timbers
  in front of the aircraft's wheels.
  Across the airfield occasionally, as the snow gusted and limits of
  visibility changed, the lights of aircraft taking off and landing could
  be seen, and the whinepitched roar of jet engines was carried on the wind
  to the ears of the men working. But close alongside, runway thn.-e zero
  remained silent and deserted.
  Joe Patroni calculated: It would probably be an hour before the digging
  would be complete and the Boeing 707's engines could be started in an
  attempt to taxi the big airliner out. Meanwhile, the men now excavating
  the twin trenches, which were beginning to take shape, would have to be
  relieved in shifts, to warm themselves in the crew bus, still parked on
  the taxiway.
  It was ten-thirty now. With luck, he thought, he might be home in
  bed-with Marie-soon after mid-
 L,
 night.
  To bring the prospect nearer, also to keep warm, Patroni thrcw himself
  even harder into shoveling.

               11

In the Clot d Captain's Coffee Shop, Captain Vernon
Demerest oi-dered tea for Gwen, black coffee for him
self. Coffee-as it was supposed to do-helped keep
                                                 AIRPORT           249

 him alert; lie would probably down a dozen more cups between here and
 Rome. Although Captain Harris would be doing most of the flying of Flight
 Two tonight, Demerest had no intention of relaxing mentally. In the air,
 he rarely did. He was aware, as were most veteran pilots, that aviators
 who died in their beds of old age were those who throughout their careers
 had been ready to cope insrantly with the unexpected.
  "We're both unusually quiet," Gwen said in her gentle English voice. "We
  scarcely said a word coming into the terminal."
  It was just a few minutes since they left the departure concourse, after
  announcement of the one hour flight delay. They had managed to snare a
  booth near the rear of the coffee shop, and now Gwen was looking into the
  mirror of her compact, patting her hair into place where it flowed
  superbly from beneath the smart Trans America stewardess cap. Her dark,
  expressive eyes switched briefly from the mirror to Vernon Demerest's f
  ace.
  "I wasn't talking," Demerest said, "because I've been thinking; that's
  all."
  Gwen moistened her lips, though not applying lipstick -airlines had
  strict rules against stewardesses applying make-up in public. In any
  case, Gwen used very little; her complexion was the milk and roses kind
  which so many English girls seemed born with.
  "Thinking about what? Your traumatic experiencethe announcement we're to
  be parents?" Gwen smiled mischievously, then recited, "Captain Vernon
  Waldo Demerest and Miss Gwendolyn Aline Meighen announce the approaching
  arrival of their first child, a ... what? . . . 'We don't know, do we?
  We won't for another seven months. Oh well, it isn't long to wait."
  He remained silent while their coffee and tea was set before them, then
  protested, "For God's sake, Gwen, let's be serious about this."
  "Why should we be? Especially if I'm not. After all, if anyone'3
  worrying, it ought to be me."
  He was tbout to object again when Gwen reached for his hand under the
  table. Her expression changed to
 250          AIRPORT

 sympathy. "I'm sorry. I suppose it really is a bit shattering-for both of
 us.'"
  It was the opening Demerest had been waiting for. He said carefully, "It
  needn't be shattering. What's more, we don't have to be parents unless we
  choose to be. 11

  "Well," Gwen said matter-of-factly, "I was wondering when you'd get around
  to it." She snapped her compact closed. and put it away. "You almost did in
  the car, didn't vou? Fben thought better of it."
 "Tho~tgnt better of what?"
  "Oh really, Vernon! Why pretend? We both know perfectly w(,,Il what it is
  you're talking about. You want me to have an abortion. You've been thinking
  about it ever since I told you I was pregnant. Well, haven't you?"
  He nodded reluctantly. "Yes." He still found Gwen's directness
  disconcerting.
  "What's the matter? Did you think I'd never heard about abortions before?"
  Demerest. glanced over his shoulder, wondering if they could be overheard,
  but the clatter of the coffee shop, the buzz of conversation generally,
  were all-pervading.
 "I wasn't sure how you'd feel."
  "I'm not sure either." It was Gwen's turn to be serious. She was looking
  down at her hands, the long slender fingers he admired so much now clasped
  in front of her. "I've thought about it. I still don't know."
  He felt encouraged. At least there was no slammed door, no blank refusal.
  He tried to make himself the voice of reason. "It's really the only
  sensible thing to do. Maybe in some ways it's unpleasant to think of, but
  at least it's over quickly, and if it's done properly, therapeutically,
  there's no danger involved, no fear of complications."
  "I know," Gwen said. "It's all terribly simple. Now you have it; now you
  don't." She looked at him directly. "Right?"
 "Right."
             AIRPORT           251

  He sipped his coffee. Perhaps this was going to be easier than he had
  thought.
  "Vernon," Gwen said softly, "have you considered that what's inside me is
  a human being; that it's alive, a person--even now? We made love. It's us,
  you and me; a part of us." Her eyes, more troubled than he had yet seen
  them, searched his face for a response.
  He said emphatically, his voice deliberately harsh, "That isn't true. A
  fetus at this stage is not a human being; nor is it a person, not yet. It
  could be later, but it isn't now. It doesn't have life or breath or
  feeling. An abortion-particularly this soon-isn't the same as taking a
  human life."
  Gwen reacted with the same quick temper she had shown in the car on their
  way to the airport. "You mean it might not be such a good thing later on?
  If we waited, then had an abortion, it might not be so ethical when the
  baby wits perfectly formed, its fingers and toes all there. To kill it then
  might be a little worse than now. Is that it, Vernon?"
 Dernerest shook his head. "I didn't say that."
 "But you implied it."
  "If I did, I didn't mean to. In any case, you're twisting words around."
 Gwen sighed. "I'm being womanly."
  "No one's more entitled to be." He smiled; his eyes moved over her. The
  thought of Naples, with Gwen ... a few hours from now ... still excited
  him.
 "I do love you, Vernon. I really do."
  Under the table he retrieved her hand. "I know. It's why this is hard for
  us both."
  "The thing is," Gwen said slowly, as if thinking aloud, "I've never
  conceived a child before, and until it happens a woman always wonders if
  she can. When you find out, as I have, that the answer's yes, in a way it's
  a gift, a feeling ... that only a woman knows ... that's great and
  wonderful. Then suddenly in our kind of situation, you're faced with ending
  it all, of squandering what was given." Her eyes were misty. "Do you under-
  stand, Vernon? Really understand?"
 He answered gently, "Yes, I think so."
 252          AIRPORT

  "The difference between you and me is that you've had a child."
  He shook his head. "I've no children. Sarah and I ... 1~
  "Not in your marriage. But there was a child; you told me so. A little
  girl; the one from the 3-PPP Program"-Gwen gave the ghost of a smile-"who
  was adopted. Now, whatever happens there's always someone, somewhere,
  that's you again."
 He remained silent.
  Gwen asked, "Do you ever think about her? Don't you ever wonder where she
  is, what she's like?"
  There was no reason to lie. "Yes," he said. "Sometimes I do."
 "You've no means of finding out?"
  He shook his head. He had once inquired, but was told that when an adoption
  was sealed, they threw away the files. There was no way to know-ever.
  Gwen drank from her teacup. Over its rim she surveyed the crowded coffee
  shop. He sensed that her composure had returned; the trace of tears was
  gone.
  She said with a smile, "Oh dear, what a lot of trouble I'm causing you."
  He answered, and meant it: "It isn't my worrying that matters. It's what's
  best for you."
  "Well, I suppose in the end IT do what's sensible. I'll have an abortion.
  I just have to think it through, talk it out, first."
  "When you're ready, I'll help. But we shouldn't lose much time."
 "I suppose not."
  "Look, Gwen," he assured her, "the whole thing is fast, and I promise you
  it'll be medically safe." He told her about Sweden; that he would pay
  whatever the clinic cost; that the airline would cooperate in getting her
  there.
  She acknowledged, "I'll make up my mind, for sure, before we get back from
  this trip."
  He picked up their check, and they rose to leave. It was nearing time for
  Gwen to be on hand to greet passengers boarding Flight Two.
             AIRPORT           253

  As they left the coffee shop, she said, "I guess I'm pretty lucky you're
  the way you are. Some men would have walked away and left me."
 "I won't leave you."
  But he would leave her; be knew that now. When Naples and the abortion
  were over, he would finish with Gwen, break off their affair-as
  considerately as he could, but completely and definitely just the same.
  It would not be too difficult. There might be an uncomfortable moment or
  two when Gwen learned of his intention, but she was not the kind to make
  a fuss; she had demonstrated that already. In any event, he could handle
  the situation, which would not be a new one. Vernon Dernerest had
  disentangled himself successfully from amorous affairs before.
  It was true that this time there was a difference. No one before had ever
  had quite the same effect on him as Gwen. No other woman had stirred him
  quite so deeply. No one else-at least, whom he remembered-had caused him
  to enjoy her company, just being with her, quite so much. Parting, for
  himself, would not be easy, and he knew he would be tempted, later on,
  to change his mind.
  But he would not. Through all his life so far, once he had decided on a
  course of action, Vernon Dernerest had seen it through. Seff-discipline
  was a habit he enforced.
  Besides, commonsense told him that if he did not break with Gwen soon,
  the time might come when he could not, when-self-discipline or not-he
  could never bring himself to give her up. If that happened, it would
  entail a need for permanence and, along with that, the kind of
  catastrophic upheaval-marital, financial, emotional-which he was
  determined to avoid. Ten or fifteen years ago, maybe; not now.
  He touched Gwen's arm. "You go on. IT follow in a minute."
  Ahead of them, as the crowds in the central concourse parted briefly, he
  had observed Mel Bakersfeld. Vernon Dernerest had no particular objection
  to being
 254          AIRPORT

 seen with Gwen; just the same, there was no sense in advertising their
 relationship around the family.
  His brother-in-law, he noticed, was talking earnestly with Lieutenant Ned
  Ordway, the efficient, amiable Negro who commanded the airport police
  detachment. Perhaps Mol would be too absorbed to notice his sister's
  husband, which was perfectly all right with Demerest, who had Do
  particular wish for a meeting, though at the same time fie had no
  intention of avoiding one.
  Gwen disappeared into the crowd; his last glimpse of her was of shapely,
  nylon-sheathed legs, and ankles equally as attractive and proportionate.
  0 Sole Mio ... hurry up!
 Damn! Mel Bakersfeld had seen him.

  "I was looking for you," Lieutenant Ordway had told Mel a few minutes
  earlier. "I've just heard we're having visitors-several hundred."
  Tonight the airport police chief was in uniform; a taU, striking figure
  who looked like an African emperor, though for one so big, he spoke with
  surprising softness.
  "We already have visitors." Mel glanced around the crowded, bustling
  concourse. He had been passing through on the way to his office on the
  executive mezzanine. "Not hundreds; thousands."
  "I don't mean passengers," Ordway said. "The ones I'm talking about may
  cause us more trouble."
  He told Mel about the Meadowood mass meeting to protest airport noise;
  now the meeting had adjourned and most of its members were on their way
  to the airport. Lieutenant Ordway had learned about the meeting, and its
  intended follow-up, from a TV news crew which had requested permission
  to set up cameras inside the terminal. After talking with the TV people,
  Ordway telephoned a friend on the Tribune city desk downtown, who read
  him the gist of a news story which a reporter at the original meeting had
  just phoned in.
  "Hell!" Mel grumbled. "Of all the nights to choosel As if we don't have
  enough trouble already."
  "I guess that's the idea; they'll get noticed more that way. But I
  thought you'd better be warned because
             AIRPORT           255

 they'll probably want to see you, and maybe someone from the F AA."
  Mel said sourly, "The FAA goes underground when they bear of something like
  t1fis. They never come out until the all clear's sounded."
  "How about you?" The policeman grinned. "You plan to start tunneling?"
  "No. You can tell them I'll meet a delegation of half a dozen, though even
  that's a waste of time tonight. There's nothing I can do."
  "You realize," Ordway said, "that providing they don't create a disturbance
  or damage property, there's nothing I can do legally to keep the rest of
  them out."
  "Yes, I realize it, but I'm not going to talk to a mob, though just the
  same, let's not look for trouble. Even if we get pushed around a little,
  make sure we don't do any pushing ourselves unless we have to. Remember
  that the press will be here, and I don't want to create any martyrs."
  "I already warned my men. They'll make with the jokes and save the
  jujitsu."
 "Good!"
  Mel had confidence in Ned Ordway. The policing of Lincoln International was
  handled by a self-administering detachment of the city force, and
  Lieutenant Ordway represented the best type of career policeman. He had
  been in cbarge of the airport police detail a year, and would probably move
  on to a more important assignment downtown soon. Mel would be sorry to see
  him go.
  "Apart from this Meadowood thing," Mel inquired, "bow's everything else
  been?" He was aware that Ordway's force of a hundred policemen, like most
  others at the airport, had done extra hours of duty since the storm began.
  "Mostly routine. More drunks than usual, and a couple of fist fights. But
  that figures because of all the flight delays and your busy bars."
  Mel grinned. "Don't knock the bars. The airport takes a percentage from
  every drink, and we need the revenue. "
 256          AIRPORT

  "So do airlines, I guess. At least judging by the passengers th(,y try
  to sober up, so they can put them aboard. I have my usual beef about
  that."
 "Coffee?"
  "Right. The moment a passenger in his cups shows up at an airline
  check-in counter, somebody from passenger relations gets assigned to pour
  coffee into him. Airlines never seem to learn that when the coffee's in,
  all you have is a wide-awake drunk. Mostly, that's when they call us."
 "You can handle it."
  Ordway's men, Mel was aware, were expert at dealing with airport drunks,
  who were rarely charged unless they became obstreperous. Mostly they were
  salesmen and businessmen from out of town, sometimes exhausted after a
  grueling, competitive week, whom a few drinks on the way home hit hard.
  If flight crews wouldn't allow them aboard-and captains, who had the last
  word on such matters, were usually adamant about it-the drunks were
  escorted to the police detention building and left to sober up. Later,
  they were allowed to go-usually sheepishly.
  "Oh, there is one thing," the police chief said. "The parking lot people
  think we have several more dumped cars. In this weather it's hard to be
  sure, but we'll check it out as soon as we can."
  Mel grimaced. Worthless cars abandoned on parking lots were currently a
  plague at every big city airport. Nowadays, when an old jalopy became
  useless, it was surprisingly hard to get rid of it. Scrap and salvage
  dealers were jammed to the limits of their yards and wanted no
  more-unless car owners paid. So an owner was faced with the alternatives
  of paying for disposal, renting storage, or finding a place to abandon
  his vehicle where it could not be traced back to him. Airports had become
  obvious dumping grounds.
  The old cars were driven into airport parking lots, then licerse plates
  and other obvious identification quietly removed. Engine serial numbers
  could not be removed, of course, but the time and trouble involved in
  tracing t1wra was never worth while. It was simpler for
             AIRPORT           257

 the airport to do what the ex-owner would not-pay for the car to he taken
 away and junked, and as quickly as possible sitice it was occupying revenue
 parking space. Recently, at Lincoln International, the monthly bill for old
 car disposal had become formidable.
  Through the shifting throng in the concourse, Mel caught sight of Captain
  Vernon Demerest.
  "Aside from that," Ordway said genially, "we're in great shape for your
  Meadowood visitors. I'll let you know when they get here." With a friendly
  nod, the policeman moved on.
  Vernon Demerest-in Trans America uniform, his bearing confident as
  usual-was coming Mel's way. Mel felt a surge of irritation, remembering the
  adverse snow committee report which he had heard about, but still hadn't
  seen.
  Demerest seemed disinclined to stop until Mel said, "Good eveiiing,
  Vernon."
 "Hi." The tone was indifferent.
  "I hear that you're an authority, now, on snow clearance."
  "You don't have to be an authority," Vernon Demerest said brusquely, "to
  know when there's a lousy job being done."
  Mel made an effort to keep his tone moderate. "Have you any idea how much
  snow there's been?"
  "Probably better than you. Part of my job is studying weather reports."
  "Then you're aware we've had ten inches of snow on the airport in the past
  twenty-four hours; to say nothing of what was there already."
 Dernerest shrugged. "So clear it."
 "It's what we're doing."
 "Goddamned inefficiently."
  "The maximum recorded snowfall here-ever," Mel persisted, "was twelve
  inches in the same period. That was an intmelation, and everything closed
  down. This time we've come near to it, but we haven't closed. We've fou-1ht
  to stay open, and we've managed it. There isn't an airport anywhere that
  could have coped better
 258          AIRPORT

 than we have with this storm. We've had every piece of snow-moving
 machinery manned around the clock."
 "Maybe you haven't got enough machinery."
  "Good God, Vernon! Nobody has enough equipment for the kind of storm
  we've had these past three days. Anybody could use more, but you don't
  buy snowclearing machinery for occasional maximum situations -not if
  you've any economic sense. You buy for optimums, then when an emergency
  hits, you use everything you have, deploying it to best advantage. That's
  what my men have been doing, and they've done damned well! "
  "Okay," Demerest said, "you have your opinion, I have mine. I happen to
  think you've done an incompetent job. I've said so in my report."
  "I thought it was a committee report. Or did you elbow the others out so
  you could take a personal stab at me?"
  "How the committee works is our business. The report is what matters.
  You'll get your copy tomorrow."
  "Thanks a lot." His brother-in-law, Mel noticed, had not bothered to deny
  that the report was directed personally. Mel went on, "Whatever it is
  you've written won't change anything, but if it gives you satisfaction,
  it'll have a nuisance value. Tomorrow I'll have to waste time explaining
  how ignorant-in some areas-you really are."
  Mel had spoken heatedly, not bothering to conceal his anger, and for the
  first time Demerest grinned. "Got under your skin a little, eh? Well,
  that's too bad about the nuisance value and your precious time. I'll re-
  member it tomorrow while I'm enjoying Italian sunshine." Still grinning,
  he walked away.
  He had not gone more than a few yards when the grin changed to a scowl.
  The cause of Captain Demerest's displeasure was the central lobby
  insurance booth-tonight, clearly doing a brisk business. It was a
  reminder that Demerest's victory overr Mel Bakersfeld had been picayune,
  a pinprick only. A week from now, the adverse snow committee report would
  be forgotten, but the insurance
             AIRPORT           259

 counter would still be here. So the real victory was still with his smooth,
 smug brother-in-law, who had defeated Demerest's arguments in front of the
 Board of Airport Commissioners, and made him look a fool.
  Behind the insurance counters two young girls--one of them the big-breasted
  blonde-were rapidly writing policies for applicants, while another half
  dozen people waited in line. Most of those waiting were holding cash in
  their hands-representing more quick profits for the insurance companies,
  Demerest reflected sourly-and he had no doubt the automatic vending
  machines in various locations in the terminal were just as busy.
  He wondered if any of his own Flight Two passengers-to-be were among those
  in line. He was tempted to inquire and, if so, do some proselytizing of his
  own; but he decided not. Vernon Demerest had tried the same thing once
  before-urging people at an insurance counter not to buy airport flight
  insurance, and telling them why; and afterward there bad been complaints,
  resulting in a sharply worded reprimand to him from Trans America
  management. Though airlines did not like airport insurance vending any more
  than aircrews did, the airlines were subject to differing pressures which
  forced them to stay neutral. For one thing, airport managements claimed
  they needed the insurance companies' revenue; if they didn't get it from
  that source, they pointed out, maybe the airlines would have to make up the
  difference in higher landing fees. For another, airlines were not eager to
  offend passengers, who might resent not being able to buy insurance in a
  way they had become used to. Therefore the pilots alone had taken the
  initiative-along with the abuse.
  Preoccupied with his thoughts, Captain Demerest had paused for a few
  seconds, watching the insurance booth activity. Now he saw a newcomer join
  the queue-a nervous-looking man-spindly and stoop-shouldered, and with a
  small, sandy mustache. The man carried a small attac46 case and seemed to
  be worrying about the time; he cast frequent glances at the central lobby
  clock, comparing it with his own watch. He was clearly unhappy about the
  length of the line-up ahead of him.
 260          AIRPORT

  Demerest thought disgustedly: the man had left himself with too little
  time; he should forget about insurance and get aboard his flight.
  Then Demerest reminded himself: he should be back on the flight deck of
  Flight Two. He began to walk quickly toward the Trans America departure
  concourse; at any moment now the first boarding announcement would be
  made. Ah!-there it was.
  "Trans America Airlines announces the departure of Flight Two, The Golden
  Argosy, for Rome..."
  Captain Dernerest had stayed in the terminal longer than he intended. As
  he hurried, the announcement, clear and audible above the babel in the
  concourses, continued.

               12

   Flight Two, The Golden Argosy, for Rome. The flight is now ready for
   boarding. All passengers holding confirmed reservations . . ."
  An airport flight departure announcement meant diverse things to those
  who heard it. To some, it was a routine summons, a prefix to another
  tedious, workoriented journey which-had free choice been theirsthey would
  not have made. For others, a flight announcement spelled a beginning of
  adventure; for others still, the nearing of an end-the journey home. For
  some it entailed sadness and parting; for others, in counterpoint, the
  prospect of reunion and joy. Some who heard flight announcements heard
  them always for other people. Their friends or relatives were travelers;
  as to themselves, the names of destinations were wistful
  not-quite-glimpses of faraway places they would never see. A handful
  heard flight announcements with fear; few heard them with indifference.
  They were a signal
             AIRPORT           261

 that a process of departure had begun. An airplane was ready; there was time
 to board, but no time to be tardy; only rarely did airliners wait for
 individuals. In a short time the airplane would enter man's unnatural
 element, the skies; and because it was unnatural there had always been, and
 would forever remain, a component of adventure and romance.
  There was nothing romantic about the mechanics of a flight announcement. It
  originated in a machine which in many ways resembled a juke box, except
  that push buttons instead of coins were required to actuate it. The push
  buttons were on a console in Flight Information Control-a miniature control
  tower (each airline had its own F.I.C. or equivalent) -located above the
  departure concourse. A woman clerk pushed the buttons in appropriate
  sequence; after that the machinery took over.
  Almost all flight announcements-the exceptions were those for special
  situations-were pre-recorded on cartridge tapes. Although, to the ear, each
  announcement seemed complete in itself, it never was, for it consisted of
  three separate recordings. The first recording named the airline and
  flight; the second described the loading situation, whether preliminary,
  boarding, or final; the third recording specified gate number and con-
  course. Since the three recordings followed one another without a pause,
  they sounded-as they were intended to-continuous.
  People who disliked quasi-human automation were sometimes cheered when
  flight announcement machines went wrong. OccasionaHy part of the machinery
  would jam, with such results as passengers for half a dozen flights being
  misdirected to the same gate. The resultant debacle, involving a thousand
  or more confused, impatient passengers, was an airline agent's nightmare.
 Tonight, for FlightTwo, the machinery worked.
  ". . . passengers holding confirmed reservations please proceed to pate
  forty-seven, the Blue Concourse 'D'."

  By now, thousands in the terminal had heard the announcement of Flight Two.
  Some who heard were
 262          AIRPORT

 more cone.--med than others. A few, not yet concerned, would be, before
 the night was done.
  More than a hundred and fifty Flight Two passengers heard the
  announcement. Those who had checked in, but had not reached gate
  forty-seven, hastened toward it, a few recent arrivals still knocking
  snow from their clothing as they went.

  Senior Stewardess Gwen Meighen was pre-boarding several families with
  small children when the announcement echoed down the boarding walkway.
  She used the flight deck interphone to notify Captain Anson Harris, and
  prepared herself for an influx of passengers within the next few minutes.
  Ahead of the passengers, Captain Vernon Demerest ducked aboard and
  hurried forward, closing the flight deck door behind him.
  Anson Harris, working with Second Officer Cy Jordan, had already begun
  the pre-flight check.
  "Okay," Dernerest said. He slipped into the first officer's righthand
  seat, and took the check list clipboard. Jordan returned to his regular
  seat behind the other two.

  Mel Bakersfeld, still in the central concourse, beard the announcement
  and remembered that The Golden Argosy was Vernon Demerest's flight. Mel
  genuinely regretted that once again an opportunity to end, or even
  lessen, the hostility between himself and his brotber-inlaw had ended in
  failure. Now, their personal relationship was--if possible-worse than
  before. Mel wondered how much of the blame was his own; some, certainly,
  because Vernon seemed to have a knack for probing out the worst in Mel,
  but Mel honestly believed that most of their quarrel was of Vernon's
  making. Part of the trouble was that Vernon saw himself as a superior
  being, and resented it when others didn't. A good many pilots whom Mel
  knew--especially captains-felt that way about themselves,
  Mel stitl seethed when he remembered Vernon, after the airport
  commissioners' meeting, asserting that people like Mel were
  "ground-bound, desk-tied, with
             AIRPORT           263

 penguins' minds." As if flying an airplane, Mel thought, were something
 so damned extra-special compared with other occupations!
  Just the same, Mel wished that tonight for a few hours he was a pilot
  once again, and was about to leave -as Vernon was leaving-on a flight for
  Rome. He remembered what Vernon had said about enjoying Italian sunshine
  tomorrow. Mel could do with a little of that, a little less, at this
  moment, of aviation's logistics of the ground. Tonight the surly bonds
  of earth seemed surlier than usual.

  Police Lieutenant Ned Ordway, who had left Mel Bakersfeld a few minutes
  earlier, heard the announcement of Flight Two through the opened doorway
  of a small security office just off the main concourse. Ordway was in the
  office receiving a telephoned report from his desk sergeant at airport
  police headquarters. According to a radio message from a patrol car, a
  heavy influx of private automobiles, crammed with people, was coming into
  the parking lots, which were having difficulty accommodating them.
  Inquiries had revealed that most of the cars' occupants were from
  Meadowood community-members of the anti-noise demonstration which Lie
  utenant Ordway had already heard about. As per the lieutenant's orders,
  the desk sergeant said, police reinforcements were on their way to the
  terminal.

  A few hundred feet from Lieutenant Ordway, in a passenger waiting area,
  the little old lady from San Diego, Mrs. Ada Quonsett, paused in her
  conversation with young Peter Coakley of Trans America, while both
  listened to the announcement of Flight Two.
  They were seated, side by side, on one of a series of black, leather
  padded benches. Mrs. Quonsett had been describing the virtues of her late
  husband in the same kind of terms which Queen Victoria must have used
  when speaking of Prince Albert. "Such a dear person, so very wise, and
  handsome. He came to me in later life, but I imagine, when he was young,
  he must have been very much like you."
 264          AIRPORT

  Peter Coakley grinned sheepishly, as he had done many times in the past
  hour and a half. Since leaving Tanya Livingston, with instructions to
  remain with the old lady stowaway until the departure of her return flight
  for Los Angeles, their talk had consisted chiefly of a monologue by Mrs.
  Quonsett in which Peter Coakley was compared frequently and favorably with
  the late Herbert Quonsett. lt was a subject of which Peter was becoming
  decidedly weary. He was unaware that that was what Ada Quonsett astutely
  intended.
  Surreptitiously, Peter Coakley yawned; this was not the kind of work he had
  expected when he became a Trans America passenger agent. He felt an
  absolute fool, sitting here in uniform, playing dry nurse to a harmless,
  garrulous old dame who could have been his great-grandmother. lie hoped
  this duty would be over soon. It was bad luck that Mrs. Quonsett's flight
  to Los Angeles, like most others tonight, was being further delayed by the
  storm; otherwise the old girl would have been on her way an hour ago. He
  hoped to goodness that the L.A. flight would be called soon. Meanwhile, the
  announcement about Flight Two, which was continuing, made a welcome, if
  brief, respite.
  Young Peter Coakley had already forgotten Tanya's cautioning words:
  "Remember ... she's got a barrelful of tricks."
  "Fancy that!" Mrs. Quonsett said when the announcemeni ended. "A flight to
  Rome! An airport is so interesting, don't you think, especially for a
  young, intelligent person like you? Now there was a place-Rome -which my
  late, dear husband wanted us both to visit." She clasped her hands, a wispy
  lace handkerchief between them, and sighed. "We never did."
  While she talked, Ada Quonsett's mind was ticking like a fine Swiss watch.
  What she wanted was to give this child in a man's uniform the slip.
  Although he was plainly becoming bored, boredom itself was not enough-, he
  was still here. What she had to do was develop a situation in which boredom
  would become carelessness. But it needed to be soon.
 Mrs. Quonsett had not forgotten her original objec-             AIRPORT           265

 tive-bo stow away on a flight to New York. She had listened carefully for
 New York departure announcements, and five flights of various airlines had
 been called, but none was at the right moment, with any reasonable chance of
 getting away from her young custodian, unnoticed. Now, she had no means of
 knowing if there would be another New York departure before the Trans
 America flight to Los Angeles-the flight which she was supposed to go on,
 but didn't want to.
  Anything, Mrs. Quonsett brooded, would be better than going back to Los
  Angeles tonight. Anything!even . . . a sudden thought occurred to her . .
  . even getting aboard that flight to Rome.
  She hesitated. Why not? A lot of things she had said tonight about Herbert
  were untrue, but it was true that they had once looked at some picture
  postcards of Rome together . . . If she got no farther than Rome airport,
  she would at least have been there; it would be something to tell Blanche
  when she finally got to New York. Just as satisfying, it would be spitting
  in the eye of that red-headed passenger agent bitch ... But could she
  manage it? And what was the gate number they had just announced? Wasn't it
  . . . gate forty-seven in the Blue Concourse "D"? Yes, she was sure it was.
  Of course, the flight might be full, with no space for a stowaway or anyone
  else, but that was always a chance you took. Then for a flight to Italy,
  she supposed, people needed passports to get aboard; she would have to see
  how that worked out. And even now, if there was a flight announcement for
  New York. . .
  The main thing was not just to sit here, but to do something.
  Mrs. Quonsett fluttered her frail, lined hands. "Oh dear!" she exclaimed.
  "Oh dear!" The fingers of her right hand moved, hovering near the top of
  her old-fashioned, high-necked blouse. She dabbed at her mouth with the
  1,ace handkerchief and emitted a soft, low moan.
  A look of alarm sprang to the young ticket agent's face. "What is it, Mrs.
  Quonsett? What's wrong?"
 266          AIRPORT

  Her eyes closed, then opened; she gave several short gasps. "I'm so
  sorry. I'm afraid I don't feel at all well."
  Peter Coakley inquired anxiously, "Do you want me to get help? A doctor?"
 "I don't want to be a nuisance."
 "You won't be. . . "
  "No." Mrs. Quonsett shook her bead weakly. "I think I'll just go to the
  ladies' room. I expect I'll be all right."
  The young ticket agent appeared doubtful. He didn't want the old girl
  dying on him, though she looked ready for it. He asked uneasily, "Are you
  sure?"
  "Yes, quite sure." Mrs. Quonsett decided she didn't want to attract
  attention here, not in the main part of the terminal. There were too many
  people nearby who would be watching. "Please help me up ... thank you .
  . . now, if you'll just give me your arm. I believe the ladies' room is
  over there." On the way, she threw in a couple of low moans, producing
  anxious glances from Peter Coakley. She reassured him, "I've had an
  attack like this before. I'm sure I'll feet better soon."
  At the door to the women's room she released young Coakley's arm. "You're
  very kind to an old lady. So many young people nowadays ... Oh, dear! .
  . ." She cautioned herself: that was enough; she must be careful not to
  overdo it. "You'll wait here for me? You won't go away?"
 "Oh, no. I won't go."
 "Thank you." She opened the door and went in.
  There were twenty or thirty women inside; everything at the airport was
  busy tonight, Mrs. Quonsett thought, including washrooms. Now she needed
  an ally. She looked the field over carefully before selecting a youngish
  secretary-type woman in a beige suit, who didn't seem in a hurry. Mrs.
  Quonsett crossed to her.
  "Excuse me, I'm not feeling very well. I wonder if you'd help me." The
  little old lady from San Diego fluttered her hands and closed and opened
  her eyes, as she had for Peter Coakley.
  The younger woman was concerned at once. "Of course I'll help. Would you
  like me to take you . . ."
 "No . . . Please." Mrs. Quonsett leaned against a
             AIRPORT           267

 washbasin, apparently for support. "All I want is to send a message. There's
 a young man outside the door in airline uniform-Trans America. His name is
 Mr. Coakley. Please tell him ... yes, I would like him to get a doctor after
 all."
 "I'll tell him. Will you be all right until I get back?"
  Mrs. Quonsett nodded. "Yes, thank you. But you will come back ... and tell
  me."
 "Of course."
  Within less than a minute the younger woman had returned. "He's sending for
  a doctor right away. Now, I think you should rest. Why don't. . ."
  Mrs. Quonsett stopped leaning on the basin. "You mean he's already gone?"
 "He went immediately."
  Now all she had to do, Mrs. Quonsett thought, was get rid of this woman.
  She closed and opened her eyes again. "I know it's asking a great deal . .
  . you've already been so good . . . but my daughter is waiting for me by
  the main door, near United Air Lines."
 "You'd like me to get her for you? Bring her here?"
  Mrs. Quonsett touched the lace handkerchief to her lips. "I'd be so
  grateful, though really it's an imposition."
  "I'm sure you'd do as much for me. How will I know your daughter?"
  "She's wearing a long mauve coat and a small white hat with yellow flowers.
  She has a little dog-a French poodle."
  The secretary-type woman smiled. "That should be easy. I won't be long."
 "It is so good of you."
  Ada Quonsett waited only a moment or two after the woman had gone. Mrs.
  Quonsett hoped, for her temporary helper's sake, she did not spend too much
  time searching for an imaginary figure in a mauve coat, accompanied by a
  non-existent French poodle.
  Smiling to herself, the little old lady from San Diego left the washroom,
  walking spryly. No one accosted her as she moved away and was absorbed in
  the surging terminal crowds.
 268          AIRPORT

  Now, she thought, which was the way to the Blue Concourse "D," and gate
  forty-seven?

  To Tanya Livingston, the Flight Two announcement was like a scoreboard
  change at a quadruple-header ball game. Four Trans America flights were,
  at the moment, in various stages of departure; in her capacity as pas-
  senger relations agent, Tanya was liaising with them all. As well, she
  had just had an irritating session with a passenger from an incoming
  flight from Kansas City.
  The aggressive, fast-talking passenger complained that his wife's leather
  traveling case, which appeared on the arrivals carousel with a rip in its
  side, had been damaged as a result of careless handling. Tanya did not
  believe him--the rip looked like an old one-but, as Trans America and
  other airlines invariably did, she offered to settle the claim on the
  spot, for cash. The difficulty had been in arriving at an agreeable sum.
  Tanya offered thirty-five dollars, which she considered to be more than
  the bag's value; the passenger held out for forty-five. Finally they
  settled at forty dollars, though what the complainant didn't know was
  that a passenger relations agent had authority to go to sixty dollars to
  get rid of a nuisance claim. Even when suspecting fraud, airlines found
  it cheaper to pay up quickly than enter into a prolonged dispute. In the-
  ory, ticket agents were supposed to note damaged bags .at check-in, but
  seldom did; as a result, passengers who knew the ropes sometimes replaced
  worn-out luggage in that way.
  Though the money was not her own, Tanya always hated parting with it
  when, in her opinion, the airline was being cheated.
  Now, she turned her attention to helping round up stragglers for Flight
  Two, some of whom were still coming in. Fortunately, the bus with
  downtown checkins had arrived several minutes earlier, and most of its
  passengers had by now been directed to'Concourse "D," gate forty-seven.
  In a minute or two, Tanya decided, in case there were any last-minute
  passenger probiems
             AIRPORT           269

 during boarding, she would go to gate forty-seven herself.

  D. 0. Guerrero heard the announcement of Flight Two whitc in line at the
  insurance counter in the terminal central concourse.
  It was Guerrero, appearing hurried and nervous, whom Captain Vernon
  Dernerest had seen arrive there, carrying his small attach6 case which
  contained the dynamite bomb.
  Guerrero had come directly from the bus to the insurance counter, where he
  was now fifth in line. Two people at Lhe head of the line were being dealt
  with by a pair of girl clerks who were working with maddening slowness. One
  of the clerks-a heavy-chested blonde in a tow-cut blouse-was having a
  prolonged conversation with her present customer, a middle-aged woman. The
  clerk was apparently suggesting that the woman take out a larger policy
  than had been asked for; the woman was being indecisive. Obviously, it
  would take at least twenty minutes for Guerrero to reach the head of the
  line, but by then Flight Two would probably be gone. Yet he had to buy
  insurance; he had to be aboard.
  The p.a. announcement had said that the flight was being boarded at gate
  forty-seven. Guerrero should be at the gate now. He felt himself trembling.
  His hands were clammy on the attach6 case handle. He checked his watch
  again, for the twentieth time, comparing it with the terminal clock. Six
  minutes had gone by since the announcement of Flight Two. The final call
  ... the airplane doors closing ... could come at any moment. He would have
  to do something.
  D. 0. Guerrero pushed his way roughly to the head of the line. He was past
  caring about being noticed, or offending. A man protested, "Hey, buddy,
  we're waiting too." Guerrero ignored him. He addressed the bigbreasted
  blonde. "Please . . . my flight has been called -the one to Rome. I need
  insurance. I can't wait."
  The min who had spoken before interjected, "Then go withoul. Another time,
  get here sooner."
 Guerreio was tempted to retort: There won't be an- 270          AIRPORT

 other time. Instead, he addressed himself to the blonde again. "Pleiise!"
  To his surprise, she sn-.Liled warmly; he had been expecting a rebuff. "You
  did say Rome?"
 "Yes, yes. The flight's been called."
  "I know. She smiled again. "Trans America Flight Two. It is called The
  Golden Argosy."
  Despite his anxiety, he was aware that the girl had a sexy European accent,
  probably Hungarian.
  D. 0. Guerrero made an effort to speak normally. "That's right."
  The girl turned her smile on the others who were waiting. "This gentleman
  really does not have much time. I'm sure you will not mind if I oblige him
  first."
  So much had gone wrong tonight that he could scarcely believe his good
  luck. There was some muttered grumbling in the line of people waiting, but
  the man who had done the talking until now was silent.
  The girl produced an insurance application form. She beamed at the woman
  she had been dealing with. "This will only take a moment." Then she turned
  her smile again on D. 0. Guerrero.
  For the first time he realized how effective the smile was, and why there
  had been no real protest from the others. When the girl looked at him
  directly, Guerrero -who was seldom affected by women-had the feeling he was
  going to melt. She also had the biggest tits he had ever seen.
  "My name is Bunnie," the girl said in her European accent. "What is yours?"
  Her ballpoint pen was poised.

  As a vendor of airport flight insurance, Bunnie Vorobioff was a remarkable
  success.
  She had come to the United States, not from Hungary as D. 0. Guerrero had
  supposed, but from Glauchau in the southern portion of East Germany, via
  the Berlin Wall. Bunnie (who was then Gretchen Vorobioff, the homely,
  flat-chested daughter of a minor Communist official and a Young Communist
  herself) crossed the wall at night with two male companions. The young men
  were caught by searchlights, shot and killed; their
             AIRPORT           271

 bodies hunli for twenty-four hours on barbed wire, in public view. Bunnie
 avoided the searchlights and small arms fire and survived, survival being
 a quality which seemed to come to her naturally.
  Later, on arrival as a U.S. immigrant at age twentyone, she had embraced
  American free enterprise and its goodies with the enthusiasm of a
  religious convert. She worked hai d as a hospital aide, in which she had
  some training, and moonlighted as a waitress. Into the remaining time she
  somehow crammed a Berlitz course in English, and also managed to get to
  bed-occasionally to sleep, more often with interns from the hospital. The
  interns repaid Gretchen's sexual favors by introducing her to silicone
  breast injections, which started casually and ended by being a joyous
  group experiment to see just how big her breasts would get. Fortunately,
  before they could become more than gargantuan, she exercised another
  new-found freedom by quitting her hospital job for one with more money.
  Somewhere along the way she was taken to Washington, D.C., and toured the
  White House, the Capitol, and the Playboy Club. After the last, Gretchen
  further Americanized herself by adopting the name Bunnie.
  Now, a year and a half later, Bunnie Vorobioff was totally assimilated.
  She was in an Arthur Murray dancing class, the Blue Cross and Columbia
  Record Club, had a charge account at Carson Pirie Scott, subscribed to
  Reader's Digest and TV Guide, was buying the World Book Encyclopedia on
  time, owned a wig and a Volkswagen, collected trading stamps, and was on
  PHIS.
  Bunnie also loved contests of all kinds, especially those which held a
  hope of tangible reward. Along these lines, a reason she enjoyed her
  present job more than any other she had had so far, was that periodically
  her insurance company employers held sales contests for its staff, with
  merchandise prizes. One such contest was in progress now. It would end
  tonight.
  The contest was the reason why Bunnie had reacted so agreeably when D.
  0. Guerrero announced that he was on his way to Rome. At this moment
  Bunnie
 272          AIRPORT

 needed forty more points to win her objective in the present sales
 contest-an electric toothbrush. For a while tonight she had despaired of
 completing her total of points before the deadline, since insurance
 policies she had sold today were mostly for domestic flights; these
 produced lower premiums and earned fewer contest points. However, if a
 maximum size policy could be sold for an overseas flight, it would earn
 twenty-five contest poirts, bringing the remainder within easy reach. The
 question was: How big an insurance policy did this Rome passenger want
 and, assuming it was less than the maximum, could Bunnie Vorobioff sell
 him more?
  Usually she could. Bunnie merely turned on her most sexy smile, which she
  had learned to use like an instant warming oven, leaned close to the
  customer so that her breasts bemused him, then announced how much more
  benefit could be had for an additional small sum of money. Most times the
  ploy worked and was the reason for Bunnie's success as an insurance
  saleswoman.
  When D. 0. Guerrero had spelled out his name, she asked, "What kind of
  policy were you considering, sir?"
  Guerrero swallowed. "Straight life-seventy-five thousand dollars."
  Now that. he had said it, his mouth was dry. He had a sudden feai that
  his words had alerted everyone in the line-up; their eyes were boring
  into his back. His entire body was trembling; be was sure it would be
  noticed. To cover up, he lit a cigarette, but his hand was shaking so
  much that he had trouble bringing match and cigarette together.
  Fortunately, the girl, with her pen hovering over the entry "principal
  sum," appeared not to notice.
  Bunnie pronounced, "That would cost two dollars and fifty cents."
  "What? ... Oh, yes." Guerrero managed to light the cigarette, then
  dropped the match. He reached into his pocket for some of the small
  amount of money he had remaining.
  "But it is quite a tiny policy." Bunnie Vorobioff had still not m,,,rked
  in the principal sum. Now she leaned forward, bi-inging her breasts
  nearer to the customer. She could see him looking down at them with
  fascina-
               AIRPORT           273

 tion; men always did. Some, she sensed at times, wanted to reach out and
 touch. Not this man, though.
  "Tiny?" Guerrero's speech was awkward, halting. "I thought . . . it was the
  biggest."
  Even to Bunnie, the man's nervousness was now apparent. She supposed it was
  because he would be flying soon. She directed a dazzling smile across the
  counter.
  "Oh no, sir; you could buy a three hundred thousand dollar policy. Most
  people do, and for just ten dollars premium. Really, it isn't much to pay
  for all that protection, is it?" She kept her smile switched on; the
  response could mcan a difference of nearly twenty contest points; it might
  gain or lose her the electric toothbrush.
 "You said ... ten dollars?"
 "That's right-for three hundred thousand dollars."
  D. 0. Guerrero thought: He hadn't known. All along, he had believed that
  seventy-five thousand dollars was the top firnit for airport-purchase
  insurance for an overseas flight. He had obtained the information from an
  insurance application blank which, a month or two ago, he had picked up at
  another airport. Now he remembered-the earlier blank came from an automatic
  vending machine. It had not occurred to him that overthe-counter policies
  could be that much greater.
 Three hundred thousand dollars!
 "Yes," he said eagerly. "Please ... yes."
 Bunnie beamed. "The full amount, Mr. Guerrero?"
  He wa,,~ about to nod assent when the supreme irony occurred to him. He
  probably did not possess ten dollars. He told Bunnie, "Miss . . . wait!"
  and began searching his pockets, pulling out whatever money he could find.
  The po)ple in line behind were becoming restive. The man who had objected
  to Guerrero to begin with, protested to Bunnie, "You said he'd just take a
  minute!"
 Guerrero had found four dollars and seventy cents.
  Two nights ago, when D. 0. Guerrero and Inez had pooled their last
  remaining money, D.O. had taken eight dollars, plus small change, for
  himself. After pawning Inez's ring and making the down payment on the Trans
  America ticket, there had been a few dollars
 274          AIRPORT

 left; he wasn't sure how many, but since then he had paid for meals,
 subway fares, the airport bus . . . He had known that he would need two
 and a half dollars for flight insurance, and had kept it carefully in a
 separate pocket. But beyond that he hadn't bothered, aware that once
 aboard Flight Two, money would be of no further use.
  "If you don't have cash," Bunnie Vorobioff said, t4you can give me a
  check."
  "I left my checkbook home." It was a lie; there were checks in his
  pocket. But if he wrote a check, it would bounce and invalidate the
  insurance.
  Bunnie persisted, "How about your Italian money, Mr. Guerrero? I can take
  lire and give you the proper rate. "
  He muttered, "I don't have Italian money," then cursed himself for having
  said it. Downtown he had checked in without baggage for a flight to Rome.
  Now insanely, he had demonstrated before onlookers that he had no money,
  either American or Italian. Who would board an overseas flight unequipped
  and penniless, except someone who knew the flight would never reach its
  destination?
  Then D. 0. Guerrero reminded himself ... exceptin his own mind . . . the
  two incidents-downtown and here-were unconnected. They would not be
  connected until afterward, and by then it wouldn't matter.
  He reasoned, as he had on the way out: It was not the strength of
  suspicion which was important. The crucial facter would still be the
  absence of wreckage, the absence of proof.
  Surprisin.gly, despite his latest gaffe, he discovered he was growing
  more confident.
  He adde~i some (limes and pennies to the pile of change on the insurance
  counter. Then, miraculously, in an inside pocket, he found a five-dollar
  bill.
  Not concealing his excitement, Guerrero exclaimed, "That's it! I have
  enough!" There was even a dollar or so in small change left over.
 But everr Bunnie Vorobioff was doubtful now. In-             AIRPORT           275

 stead of writing the three hundred thousand dollar policy which the man
 was waiting for, she hesitated.
  While he had searched his pockets, she had been watching the customer's
  face.
  It was strange, of course, that this man was going overseas without
  money, but, after all, that was his own business; there could be plenty
  of reasons for it. What really bothered her was his eyes; they held a
  hint of frenzy, desperation. Both were qualities which Bunnie Vorobioff
  recognized from her past. She had seen them in others. At moments-though
  it seemed long agoshe had been close to them herself.
  Bunnie's insurance company employers had a standing instruction: If a
  purchaser of flight insurance seemed irrational, unusually excited, or
  was drunk, the fact was to be reported to the airline on which he was
  traveling. The question for Bunnic was: Was this an occasion to invoke
  the rule?
 She wasn't sure.
  The company standing instruction was sometimes discussed, among
  themselves, by flight insurance sales clerks. Some of the girls resented
  or ignored it, arguing that they were hired to sell insurance, not to act
  as unpaid, unqualified psychologists. Others pointed out that many people
  who bought flight insurance at an airport were nervous to begin with; how
  could anyone, without special training, decide where nervousness ended
  and irrationality began? Bunnie herself had never reported a keyed-up
  passenger, though she knew a girl who had, and the passenger turned out
  to be an airline vice president, excited because his wife was going to
  have a baby. There had been all kinds of trouble over that.
  Still Bunnie hesitated. She had covered her hesitation by counting the
  man's money on the counter. Now she wondered if Marj, the other clerk
  working beside her, had noticed anytbing unusual. Apparently not. Marj
  was busy writing a policy, earning her contest points.
  In the ~-nd, it was Bunnie Vorobioff's past which swayed her decision.
  Her formative years ... occupied Europe, her flight to the West, the
  Berlin Wall . . . had
 276          AIRPORT

 taught her survival, and conditioned her to something else: to curb
 curiosity, and not to ask unnecessary questions. Ouestions had a way of
 leading to involvement, and involv,,-ment-in other people's problems-was
 something to be avoided when one had problems of one's own.
  Without further questioning, at the same time solving her problem of how to
  win an electric toothbrush, Bunnie Vorobioff wrote a flight insurance
  policy, for three hundred thousand dollars, on D. 0. Guerrero's life.
  Guerrero mailed the policy to his wife, Inez, on his way to gate
  forty-seven and Flight Two.

               13

 U. S. Customs Inspector Harry Standish did not hear the announcement of
 Flight Two's impending departure, but knew it had been made. Flight
 announcements were not relayed to the Customs Hall, since only international
 arriving passengers came there, so Standish obtained his information on the
 telephone, from Trans America Airlines. He had been informed that Flight Two
 was beginning to load at gate forty-seven and would depart at its
 rescheduled time of 11 P.m.
  Standish was watching the clock and would go to gate forty-seven in a few
  minutes, not on official business, but to say goodbye to his niece,
  Judy-his sister's child -who was leaving for a year's schooling in Europe.
  Standish had promised his sister, who lived in Denver, that he would see
  Judy off. Earlier this evening, in the terminal, bo had spent some time
  with his niece-a pleasant, seff-possessed girl of eighteen-and had said he
  would drop around for a final goodbye before her flight took off.
             AIRPORT           277

  Meanwhile, Inspector Standish was trying to clear up a tiresome problem
  near the end of what had been an exceptionally harassing day.
  "Madam," he said quietly to the haughty, angular woman whose several
  suitcases were spread open on the Customs inspection table between them,
  "are you quite sure you don't wish to change your story?"
  She snapped back, "I suppose you're suggesting I should lie, when I've
  already told you the truth. Really! -you people are so officious, so
  disbelieving, I sometimes wonder if we're not living in a police state."
  Harry Standish ignored the second remark, as Customs officers were trained
  to ignore the many insults they received, and answered politely, "I'm not
  suggesting anything, madam. I merely asked if you wished to amend your
  statement about these items-the dresses, the sweaters, and the fur coat."
  ne woman, whose American passport showed that she was Mrs. Harriet Du Barry
  Mossman who lived in Evanston, and had just returned from a month in En-
  gland, France, and Denmark, replied acidly, "No, I don't. Furthermore, when
  my husband's lawyer hears of this interrogation . . ."
  "Yes madam," Harry Standish said. "In that case, I wonder if you'd mind
  signing this form. If you like, I'll explain it to you."
  The dresses, sweaters, and fur coat were spread out on top of the
  suitcases. Mrs. Mossman had been wearing the coat-a sable jacket-until a
  few minutes ago when Inspector Standish arrived at Customs inspection
  station number eleven; he had asked her to take the coat off so that he
  could look at it more closely. Shortly before that, a red light on a wall
  panel near the center of the big Customs Hall had summoned Standish. The
  lights-one for each station-indicated that an inspecting officer had a
  problem and needed supervisory help.
  Now, the young Customs man who had dealt with Mrs. Mossman originally was
  standing at Inspector StandisY,'i side. Most of the other passengers, who
  had arrived aboard a Scandinavian Airlines DC-8 from
 278          AIRPORT

 Copenhagen had cleared Customs and had left. Only this well-dressed American
 woman posed a problem, insisting that all she had bought in Europe was some
 perfume, costume jewelry, and shoes. The total declared value was ninety
 dollars-ten dollars less than the free exemption she was allowed. The young
 officer had been suspicious.
  "Why should I sign anything?" Mrs. Harriet Du Barry Mossman demanded.
  Standish alanced at an overhead clock; it was a quarter to eleven. He still
  had time to finish this and reach Flight Two before it left. He answered
  patiently, "To make things easier for yourself, madam. We're, merely asking
  you to confirm in writing what you've already told is. You say the dresses
  were purchased. . ."
  "How many times must I tell you? They were bought in Chicago and New York
  before I left for Europe; so were the swcaters. The coat was a
  gift-purchased in the United States. I received it six months ago."
  Why, Har:y Standish wondered, did people do it? All the statements just
  made, he knew with certainty, were lies.
  To begin with, the dresses-six, all of good quality -had had their labels
  removed. No one did that innocently; women were usually proud of the labels
  in quality clothes. More to the point-the workmanship of the dresses Nkas
  unmistakably French; so was the styling of the fur coat-thouah a Saks Fifth
  Avenue label bad been sewn unskillfully in the coat lining. What people
  like Mrs. Mossman faded to realize was that a trained Customs man didn't
  need to see labels to know where garments ori!~inated. Cutting,
  stitching-even the way a zipper was put in-were like familiar handwriting,
  and equally distinctive.
  The same thing was true of the three expensive sweat
 ers. They also were without labels, and were unmistak
 ably from Scotland, in typical British "drab" shades,
 not available in the United States. When a U.S. store
 ordered similar sweaters, the Scottish mills made them
 in much bri ' ~4hter colors, which the North American
 market favocced. All this, and much else, Customs
 officers learned as part of their training.
              AIRPORT          279

  Mrs. Mossman asked, "What happens if I sign the form?"
 "Then you may go, madam."
 "And take my things with me? All my things?"
 "Yes."
 "Supposing I refuse to sign?"
  "Then we shall be obliged to detain you here while we continue the
  investigation."
  There was the briefest hesitation, then: "Very well. You fill out the
  form; I'll sign."
  "No, madarn; you fill it out. Now here, please describe the items, and
  alongside where you say they were obtained. Please give the name of the
  stores; also from whom you received the fur coat as a gift . . ."
  Harry Standish thought: He would have to leave in a minute; it was ten
  to eleven now. He didn't want to reach Flight Two after the doors were
  closed. But first be had a hunch ...
  He waited while Mrs. Mossman completed the form and signed it.
  Commencing tomorrow, an investigative officer would begin checking out
  the statement Mrs. Mossman had just made. The dresses and sweaters would
  be requisitioned and taken to the stores where she claimed they were
  purchased; the fur jacket would be shown to Saks Fifth Avenue, who would
  undoubtedly disown it . . . Mrs. Mossman-though she didn't know it
  yet-was in for a great deal of trouble, including some heavy Customs duty
  to be paid, and almost certainly a stiff fine.
  "Madam," Inspector Standish said, "is there anything else you wish to
  declare?"
  Mrs. Mossman snapped indignantly, "There certainly isn't!"
  "You're sure?" It was Customs Bureau policy to give travelers the utmost
  opportunity to make voluntary declarations. People were not to be
  entrapped unless they brought it on themselves.
  Not deigning to reply, Mrs. Mossman inclined her head disdainfully.
  "In that case, madam," Inspector Standish said, "will you kindly open
  your handbag?"
 280          AIRPORT

  For the first time the haughty woman betrayed uncertainty. "But surely,
  purses are never inspected. I've been through Customs many times . . ."
 "Normally they are not. But we do have the right."
  Asking to see the contents of a woman's handbag was a rarity; like a
  man's pockets, a handbag was considered personal an(] almost never looked
  into. But when an individual chose to be difficult, Customs men could be
  difficult too.
  Reluctantly, Mrs. Harriet Du Barry Mossman unclipped her purse.
  I-Tarry Standish inspected a lipstick and a gold compact. When he probed
  the powder in the compact, he extracted a diamond and ruby ring: he blew
  the powder on the ring away. There was a tube of hand lotion, partially
  used. Unrolling the tube, he could see that the bottom had been opened.
  When he pressed the tube near the top, there was something hard inside.
  He wondered when would-be smugglers would come up with something
  original. Such old tricks! He bad seen them all many times.
  Mrs. Mossman was noticeably pale. Her hauteur bad disappeared.
  "Madam," Inspector Standish said, "I have to leave for a short while, but
  I'll be back. In any case, this is going to take some time." He
  instructed the young Customs officer beside him, "Inspect everything else
  very carefully. Check the linings of the bag and cases, the seams and
  hems of all the clothes. Make a list. You know what to do."
  He was leaving when Mrs. Mossman called after him. "Officer!"
 He stopped. "Yes, madam."
  "About the coat and dresses ... perhaps I did make a mistake ... I was
  confused. I did buy them, and there are some other things . . ."
  Standish shook his head. What people never seemed to learn was that there
  had to be a cut-off point somewhere; after that, cooperation was too
  late. He saw that the young officer had found something else.
  "Please!  . . . .  I beg of you my husbandAs
             AIRPORT           281

 the Inspector turned away, the woman's face was white and drawn.
  Walking briskly, Harry Standish used a short cut, below the public
  portion of the terminal, to reach Concourse "D" and gate forty-seven. As
  he went, he reflected on the foolishness of Mrs. Harriet Du'Barry Mossman
  and the many like her. Had she been honest about the coat and dresses,
  and declared them, the duty payable would not have been great, especially
  for someone who was clearly well-to-do. The young Customs officer, though
  noticing the sweaters, probably would not have bothered with them; and
  certainly her handbag would not have been inspected. Customs men were
  aware that most returning travelers did a little smuggling, and were
  often tolerant about it. Also, if asked, they would help people lump
  high-duty items under their duty-free exemption, charging duty on other
  articles which were entitled to lower rates.
  The people who got nabbed, hit hard, and were sometimes prosecuted, were
  invariably the greedy ones like Mrs. Mossman, who tried to get away with
  everything. What had depressed Harry Standish today was the number of
  others of her kind.
  He was relieved to see that the doors of Trans America Flight Two had not
  yet closed, and a few remaining passengers were still being checked in.
  His U.S. Customs uniform was a passport anywhere within the airport, and
  the busy gate agent barely glanced up as Inspector Standish went past.
  The gate agent, Standish noticed, was being helped by a red-headed woman
  passenger relations agent whom he knew as Mrs. Livingston.
  The inspector entered the walkway to the tourist section; a stewardess
  was at the rear airplane doorway. He smiled. "I'll only be a moment.
  Don't take off with me aboard."
  He found his niece, Judy, in an aisle seat of a threeseat section. She
  was keeping a baby amused, the baby belonging to a young couple in the
  two seats alongside. Like all airplane tourist sections, this one already
  seemed cramped and crowded, the seats oppressively
 282          AIRPORT

 close to one another. On the few air journeys Inspector Standish made
 himself, he traveled tourist, but always had a sense of claustrophobia.
 Tonight he didn't envy any of these people the monotonous ten-hour journey
 which lay ahead of them.
  "Uncle Harry!" Judy said. "I thought you weren't going to make it." She
  handed the baby back to its mother.
  "I just carne to say God bless!" he told her. "Have a good year, and when
  you come back don't try any smuggling."
 She laughed. "I won't. Goodbye, Uncle Harry."
  His niece put her face up to be kissed, and be bussed her affectionately.
  He felt good about Judy. He had a feeling she would not grow up to be a
  Mrs. Mossman.
  Leaving the aircraft, with a friendly nod to the stewardesses, the
  Customs inspector paused a moment at the concourse gate, watching. The
  last moments before departure of any flight, especially one for some far
  distant place, always fascinated him, as it did many people. The final
  call . . . "Trans America Airlines announce the immediate departure of
  Flight Two, The Golden
  Argosywas just coming over the p.a. system.
  The knot of people waiting to board had been
 reduced to two. The redheaded passenger agent, Mrs.
 Livingston, was gathering up her papers as the regular
 gate agent dealt with the last arrival but one-a tall
 blond man, hatless, and wearing a camel-hair coat.
 Now, the blond man left the agent's desk and entered
 the tourist section walkway. Mrs. Livingston left too,
 walking away from the departure gate, toward the main
 section of the terminal.
  While he had been watching, Inspector Standish was aware, almost
  subconsciously, of someone else nearby, facing a window which looked away
  from the departure gate. Now the figure turned. He saw that it was an old
  lady; she appeared small, demure, and frail. She was dressed primly in
  black in an old-fashioned style, and carried a black beaded purse. She
  looked as if she needed somebody to take care of her, and he wondered
             AIRPORT           283

 why someone so old, and apparently alone, was here so late at night.
  Moving with surprising spryness, the old lady crossed to where the Trans
  America ticket agent was dealing with the last Flight Two passenger.
  Standish heard some, though not all, of what was said; the old lady's words
  were punctuated by noise from outside, from the aircraft engines, which
  were being started. "Excuse . . . my son just boarded ... blond hair, no
  hat, camel-hair coat ... forgot his wallet ... all his money." The old
  lady, Standish observed, was holding what looked like a man's billfold.
  The gMe agent glanced up impatiently. He appeared harassed; gate men
  usually were at the last moments of departure. The agent put out his hand
  to take the wallet, then, observing the old lady, changed his mind and said
  something quickly. He pointed to the tourist boarding walkway and Standish
  heard, "Ask a stewardess." The old lady smiled and nodded, and entered the
  walkway. A moment later she was out of sight.
  All that Customs Inspector Standish had observed had taken only
  moments-perhaps less than a minute. Now, he saw a newcomer arrive-a
  stoop-shouldered, spindly man, hurrying down Concourse "D" toward gate
  forty-seven. The man had a gaunt face and a slight sandy mustache. He was
  carrying a small attach6 case.
  Standish had been about to turn away, but something about the man attracted
  his attention. It was the way the newcomer was holding his case-under his
  arm, protectively. Harry Standish had watched people, many times, doing the
  same thing as they came through Customs. It was a giveaway that whatever
  was inside the case was something they wanted to conceal. If this man had
  been coming in from overseas, Standish would have had him open the case,
  and would have examined its contents. But the man was going out of the
  United States.
  Strictly speaking, it was none of Harry Standish's business.
  Yet something . . . instinct, a sixth sense which Customs men developed,
  plus a personal connection, through Judy, with Flight Two ... something
  kept the
 284          AIRPORT

 inspector watching, his eyes directed at the small attach6 case which the
 spindly man still cradled.

  The feeling of corifidence which returned to D. 0. Guerrero at the
  insurance counter had remained. As he approached gate forty-seven,
  observing that he was still in time for Flight Two, he had a conviction
  that most of his difficulties were over; from now on, he assured himself,
  everything would work out as he had foreseen. In keeping with this belief,
  there was no problem at the gate. As he had planned from the beginning, at
  this point he drew attention to the minor discrepancy between the name
  "Buerrero" on his ticket and "Guerrero" on his passport. Barely glancing at
  the passport, the gate agent corrected both the ticket and his passenger
  list, then apologized, "Sorry, sir; sometimes our reservation machines get
  careless." Now, Guerrero noted with satisfaction, his name was recorded
  properly; later, when Flight Two was reported missing, there would be no
  doubt about his own identification.
  "Have a pleasant flight, sir." The gate agent returned his ticket folder
  and motioned toward the tourist section walkway.
  As D. 0. Guerrero went aboard, still holding his attach6 case carefully,
  the starboard engines were already running.
  His numbered seat-by a window in a three-seat seetion-had been allocated
  when he checked in downtown. A stewardess directed him to it. Another male
  passenger, already in the aisle seat, stood up partially as Guerrero
  squeezed by. The center seat, between them, was unoccupied.
  D. 0. Guerrero balanced his case cautiously on his knees as he strapped
  himself in. His seat was midway in the tourist section, on the left side.
  Elsewhere in the cabin, other passengers were still settling down, ar-
  ranging hand baggage and clothing; a few people were blocking the center
  aisle. One of the stewardesses, her lips moving silently, and looking as if
  she wished everyone would keep still, was making a count of heads.
 Relaxing for the first time since leaving the South
             AIRPORT           285

 Side apartment, D, 0. Guerrero leaned back in his seat and closed his eyes.
 His hands, steadier than at any other time this evening, were firmly on the
 attach6 case. Without opening his eyes, his fingers groped under the handle
 and located the all-important loop of string. The feel of it was reassuring.
 He would sit precisely like this, he decided, when in approximately four
 hours from now he would pull the string, releasing the electrical current
 which would fire the massive charge of dynamite within the case. When the
 moment came, he wondered, how much would he have time to know? In answer, he
 reasoned: there would be an instant ... one fleeting particle of a second
 only ... when he would savor, triumphantly, rhe knowledge of success. Then,
 mercifully, no more ...
  Now that he was aboard and ready, he wished the flight would go. But when
  he opened his eyes, the same stewardess was still counting.

  There were two stewardesses, at the moment, in the tourist cabin. The
  little old lady from San Diego, Mrs. Ada Quonsett, had been observing them
  both, intermittently, peering through the slightly opened door of a toilet
  where she was hiding.
  The pre-takeoff head count by a stewardess, now being made, was something
  which Mrs. Quonsett knew about; she was also aware that this was the moment
  when anyone who was aboard illegally was closest to exposure. But if a
  stowaway could survive the count, chances were that she (or he) would not
  be detected until much later, if at all.
  Fortunately, the stewardess now making the head count was not the one whom
  Mrs. Quonsett encountered when she came aboard.
  Mrs. Quonsett had had a few anxious moments outside while she cautiously
  watched the redheaded passenger agent bitch, whom she had been distressed
  to find on duty at gate forty-seven. Fortunately, the woman had left just
  before the flight finished loading, and getting past the male gate agent
  proved easy.
 After that, Mrs. Quonsett repeated her story about
 286          AIRPORT

 the wallet to the stewardess on duty at the aircraft door-way. The
 stewardess, who was trying to cope with queries from several other people
 milling in the entranceway, declined to accept the wallet when she learned
 there was "a lot of money in it"-a reaction Mrs. Quonsett had counted on.
 Also as expected, the little old lady was told she could take the wallet
 to her son herself, if she was quick.
  The tall blond man who, all unknowingly, had been a i9son" to Mrs.
  Quonsett, was getting into a seat near the front of the cabin- Mrs.
  Quonsett moved in his direction, but only briefly. She was watching
  covertly, waiting for the attention of the stewardess near the door to
  be diverted. Almost at once it was.
  Mrs. Quonsett had left her plans flexible. There was a seat close by,
  which she could have occupied; however, a sudden movement by several
  passengers at once left a clear path to one of the aircraft toilets. A
  moment or two later, through the partially opened toilet door, she saw
  the original stewardess go forward out of sight and another stewardess
  begin the head count, starting at the front.
  ,When the second stewardess-still counting-neared the back of the
  airplane, Mrs. Quonsett emerged from the toilet and walked quickly past
  with a muttered, "Excuse me." She heard the stewardess cluck her tongue
  impatiently. Mrs. Quonsett sensed that she had now been included in the
  count-but that was all.
  A few rows forward, on the left side, there was an unoccupied seat in the
  middle of a section of three. In her experience as an aerial stowaway,
  the little old lady from San Diego had learned to seek such seats because
  most passengers disliked them; therefore they were the last to be chosen
  from seat selection boards and, where an airplane was less than full,
  were usually left empty.
  Once in the seat, Mrs. Quonsett kept her head down, trying to be as
  inconspicuous as possible. She had no illusion that she could avoid
  discovery indefinitely. At Rome there would be Immigration and Customs
  formalities, making it impossible for her to walk away unimpeded, as she
  was accustomed to doing after her
             AIRPORT           287

 illegal flights to New York; but, with luck, she would have the thrill of
 reaching Italy, plus an agreeable journey back. Meanwhile, on this flight,
 there would be a good meal, a movie, and, later, perhaps, a pleasant
 conversation with her two seat companions.
  Ada Ouonsett wondered about her seat companions. She had noticed that both
  were men, but for the time being avoided looking at the man on her right
  since it would mean turning her face toward the aisle and the stewardesses,
  both of whom were now moving back and forth, making another head count.
  Mrs. Quonsett took covert stock, however, of the man on her left, a survey
  made easier by the fact that be was reclining and had his eyes closed. He
  was a gaunt, thin man, she observed, with a sadow face and scrawny neck,
  who looked as if a hearty meal might do him good. He had a small sandy
  mustache.
  On his knees, Mrs. Quonsett noticed, the man on her left bad in attach6
  case and, despite the fact that his eyes were closed, he was holding it
  firmly.
  The stcwardesses bad finished their head count. Now a third stcwardess
  appeared from the first class compartment forward, and the three of them
  were holding a hurried consultation.
  The man on Mrs. Quonsett's left had opened his eyes. He was still gripping
  the case tightly. The little old lady from San Diego-an habitually curious
  soul-wondered what was inside.

  Walking back toward the Customs Hall-this time through the passenger
  section of the terminal-Tnspector Flarry Standish was still thinking about
  the man with the attach6 case. Standish could not have questioned th~_-
  man; outside a Customs enclosure a Customs officer had no right to
  interrogate anyone, unless believing they had evaded Customs inspection.
  The man at the departure gate quite obviously had not.
  What Standish could do, of course, was telegraph the man's description to
  Italian Customs, advising that he might be carrying contraband. But
  Standish doubted if he would. There was little cooperation between Customs
 288          AIRPORT

 departments iriternationally, only an intense professional rivalry. Even
 vith Canadian Customs, close at hand, the same thing was true; incidents
 were on record where U.S. Customs had been tipped of that illegal diamond
 shipments were being smuggled into Canada, but-as a matter of
 policy-Canadian authorities were never told. Instead, U.S. agents spotted
 the suspects on arrival in Canada and tailed them, only making an arrest if
 they crossed the United States border. The U.S. reasoning was: the country
 which seized that kind of contraband kept it all, and Customs departments
 were averse to sharing loot.
  No, Inspector Standish decided, there would be no telegram to Italy. He
  would, however, tell Trans America Airlines of his doubts and leave a
  decision to them.
  Ahead of him he had seen Mrs. Livingston, the passenger relations agent who
  had been at the Flight Two departure gate. She was talking with a Skycap
  and a group of passengers. Harry Standish waited until the Skycap and
  passengers had gone.
  "Hullo, Mr. Standish," Tanya said. "I hope things are quieter in Customs
  than around here."
  "They aren't," he told her, remembering Mrs. Harriet Du Barry Mossman, no
  doubt still being questioned in the Customs Hall.
  As Tanya waited for him to speak again, Standish hesitated. Sometimes he
  wondered if he was becoming too much the super sleuth, too aware of the
  keenness of his instincts. Most times, though, his instincts proved right.
  "I was watching your Flight Two load," Standish said. "There was something
  bothered me." He described the gaunt, spindly man and the suspicious way he
  had been clasping an attach6 case.
 "Do you think he's smuggling something?"
  Inspector Standish smiled. "If he were arriving from abroad, instead of
  leaving, I'd find out. All I can tell Von, Mrs. Livingston, is that there's
  something in that case which hc'd prefer other people not to know about."
 Tanya said thoughtfully, "I don't quite know what I
             AIRPORT           289

 can do." Even if the man was smuggling she was not convinced it was the
 airline's business.
  "Probably there's nothing to do. But you people cooperate with us, so I
  thought I'd pass the information on."
  "Thank you, Mr. Standish. I'll report it to our D.T.M., and perhaps he'll
  want to notify the captain."
  As the Customs inspector left, Tanya glanced at the overhead terminal
  clock; it showed a minute to eleven. Heading for Trans America
  Administration on the executive mezzanine, she reasoned: it was too late
  now to catch Flight Two at the departure gate; if the flight had not yet
  left the gate, it certainly would within the next few moments. She wondered
  if the District Transportation Manager was in his office. If the D.T.M.
  thought the information important, he might notify Captain Demcrest by
  radio while Flight Two was still on the ground and taxiing. Tanya hurried.
  The D.T.M. was not in his office, but Peter Coakley was.
 Tanya snapped, "What are you doing here?"
  The YOUng Trans America agent, whom the little old lady from San Diego had
  eluded, described sheepishly what had happened.
  Peter Coakley had already received one dressing down. The doctor, summoned
  to the women's washroom on a fool's errand, had been articulate and
  wrathful. Young Coakley clearly expected more of the same from Mrs.
  Livingston. He was not disappointed.
  Tanya exploded, "Damn, damn, damn!" She remonstrated, "Didn't I warn you
  she had a barrelful of tricks?"
 "Yes, you did, Mrs. Livingston. I guess I . .
  "Never mind that now! Get on the phone to each of our gates- Warn them to
  be on the lookout for an old, innocent-] ooking woman in black-you know the
  description. She's trying for New York, but may go a roundabout way. If
  she's located, the (late agent is to detain her and call here. She is not
  to be allowed on any flight, no matter what she says. While you're doing
  that, I'll call the other airlines."
 290          AIRPORT

 "Yes, ma'am."
  There were several telephones in the office. Peter Coakley took one, Tanya
  another.
  She knew by memory the airport numbers of TWA, American, United, and
  Northwest; all four airlines had direct New York flights. Talking first
  with her opposite number in TWA, Jenny Henline, she could hear Peter
  Coakley saying, "Yes, very old ... in black ... when you see her, you won't
  believe it. . . "
  A contest of minds had developed, Tanya realized, between herself and the
  ingenious, slippery Ada Quonsett. Who, in the end, Tanya wondered, would
  outwit the other?
  For the moment she had forgotten both her conversation with Customs
  Inspector Standish and her intention to locate the D.T.M.

  Aboard Might Two, Captain Vernon Dernerest fumed, "What in heH's the
  holdup?"
  Engines numbers three and four, on the starboard side of aircraft N-731-TA,
  were running. Throughout the airplane their subdued but powerful jet
  thrumming could be felt.
  The pilots had received ramp supervisor's clearance by interphone, several
  minutes ago, to start three and four, but were still awaiting clearance to
  start engines one and two, which were on the boarding side and normally not
  activated until all doors were closed. A red panel light had winked off a
  minute or two earlier, indicating that the rear fuselage door was closed
  and secure; immediately after, the rear boarding walkway was withdrawn. But
  another bright red light, still glowing, showed that the for-ward cabin
  door had not been closed, and a glance backward through the cockpit windows
  confirnied that the front boarding walkway was still in place.
  Swinging ,,round in his right-hand seat, Captain Demerest instructed Second
  Officer Jordan, "Open the door."
  Cy Jordan was seated behind the other two pilots at a complex panel of
  instruments and engine controls. Now
             AIRPORT           291

 he half rose and, extending his long, lean figure, released the flight
 deck door which opened outward. Through the doorway, in the forward
 passenger section, they could see a half dozen figures in Trans America
 uniform, Gwen Meighen among them.
  "Gwen!" Demerest called. As she came into the flight deck, "What the
  devil's happening?"
  Gwen looked worried. "The tourist passenger count won't tally. We've made
  it twice; we still can't agree with the manifest and tickets."
 "Is the ramp supervisor there?"
 "Yes, he's checking our count now."
 "I want to see him."
  At this stage of any airline flight there was always a problem of divided
  authority. Nominally the captain was already in command, but he could
  neither start engines nor taxi away without authorization from the ramp
  supervisor. Both the captain and ramp chief had the same objective-to
  make an on-schedule departure. However, their differing duties sometimes
  produced a clash.
  A moment later, the uniformed ramp supervisor, a single silver stripe
  denoting his rank, arrived on the flight deck.
  "Look, chum," Demerest said, "I know you've got problems, but so have we.
  How much longer do we sit here?"
  611've just ordered a ticket recheck, captain. Tbere's one more passenger
  in the tourist section than there ought to be."
  "All righl," Demerest said. "Now I'll tell you something. Even, second
  we sit here we're burning fuel on three and ','()ur, which you gave the
  okay to start . . . precious fuel which we need in the air tonight. So
  unless this airplanc, leaves right now, I'm shutting everything down and
  we'll send for Fueling to top off our tanks. There's another thing you
  ought to know: air traffic control. just told us they have a temporary
  gap in traffic. If we taxi o it right away, we can be off the ground
  fast; in ten minutes from now that may have changed. Now, you make the
  decision. What's it to be?"
 292          AIRPORT

  Torn between dual responsibilities, the ramp supervisor hesit-,ited. He
  knew the captain was right about burning fuel; yet to stop engines now,
  and top off tanks, would mean a further half hour's costly delay on top
  of the hour which Flight Two was late already. On the other hand, this
  was an important international flight on which the bead count and ticket
  collection ought to agree. If there was really an unauthorized person
  aboard, and he was found and taken off, later the ramp supervisor could
  justify his decision to hold. But if the difference in tallies turned out
  to be a clerical error-as it miglit-tqe D.T.M. would roast him alive.
  He made the obvious decision. Calling through the flight deck door, he
  ordered, "Cancel the ticket recheck. This flight is leaving now."
  As the flight deck door closed, a grinning Anson Harris was on the
  interphone to a crewman on the ground below. "Clear to start two?"
 The reply rattled back, "Okay to start two."
  The forward fuselage door was closed and secured; in the cockpit, its red
  indicator light winked out.
 Number two engine fired and held at a steady roar.
 "Okay to start one?"
 "Okay to start one."
  The forward boarding walkway, like a severed umbilical cord, was gliding
  back toward the terminal.
  Vernon Demerest was calling ground control on radio for permission to
  taxi.
 Number one engine fired and held.
  In the left seat, Captain Harris, who would taxi out and fly the takeoff,
  had his feet braced on the rudder pedal toe brakes.
 It was still snowing hard.
  "Trans America Flight Two from ground control. You are clear to taxi .
  . ."
 The engine tempo quickened.
  Dernerest thought: Rome ... and Naples ... here we come!
 It was I t P.m., Central Standard Time.
  In Concourse "D," half running, half stumbling, a figure reached gate
  forty-seven.
             AIRPORT           293

  Even if there had been breath to ask, questions were unneeded.
  The boarding ramps were closed. Portable signs denoting the departure of
  Flight Two, The Golden Argosy, were being taken down. A taxiing aircraft
  was leaving the gate.
  Helplessly, not knowing what she should do next, Inez Guerrerc, watched
  the airplane's lights recede.
  PART THREE

 11 P.M.-1:30 A.M. (CST)
               I

 As always at the beginning of a flight, Senior Stewardess Gwen Meighen
 experienced a sense of relief as the forward cabin door slammed closed
 and, a few moments later, the aircraft began moving.
  An airliner in a terminal was like a dependent relative, subject to the
  whims and succor of its family. Such life as it had was never
  independent. Its identity was blurred; supply lines hobbled it;
  strangers, who would never join its airborne complement, moved in and
  out.
  But when doors were sealed as the airplane prepared for takeoff, it
  became once more an entity. Crew members were most keenly aware of the
  change; they were returned to a familiar, self-contained environment in
  which they could function with skill and independence for which they had
  been trained. No one impeded them; nothing was underfoot, except what
  they were used to and at home with. Their tools and equipment were the
  finest; their resources and Ihnitations were inventoried and known.
  Self-reliance returned. The camaraderie of the air-intangible, yet real
  to all who shared it-was theirs once more.
  Even passengers-the more sensitive ones-were attuned to a mental
  transformation and, once in the air, awareness of the change increased.
  At high altitude, looking down, concerns of the everyday world seemed
  less important. Some, more analytical than others, saw the new
  perspective as a shedding of the pettiness of earth.

               297
 298          AIRPORT

  Gwen Meighen, occupied with pre-takeoff rituals, bad no time for such
  analysis. While four of the five stewardesses busied themselves with
  housekeeping chores around the airplane, Gwen used the p.a. system to
  welcome passengers aboard. With her soft English voice, she did the best
  she could with the treacly, insincere paragraph from her stewardess
  manual, which the company insisted must be read on every flight.
  "On behalf of Captain Demerest and your crew our most sincere wish that
  your flight will be pleasant and relaxing ... shortly we shall have the
  pleasure of serving ... if there is anything we can do to make your
  flight more enjoyable . . ."
  Gwen wondered sometimes when airlines would realize that most passengers
  found such announcements, at the beginning and end of every flight, a
  boring intrusion.
  More essential were the announcements about emergency exits, oxygen
  masks, and ditching. With two of the other stewardesses demonstrating,
  she accomplished them quickly.
  They were still taxiing, Gwen observed-tonight more slowly than usual,
  taking longer to reach their takeoff runway. No doubt the reason was
  traffic and the storm. From outside she could hear an occasional splatter
  of wind-driven snow on windows and fuselage.
  There was one more announcement to be made-that which aircrews liked
  least. It was required before takeoffs at Lincoln International, New
  York, Boston, Cleveland, San Francisco, and other airports with resi-
  dential areas nearby.
  "Shortly after takeoff you will notice a marked decrease in engine noise,
  due to a reduction in power. This is perfectly normal and is done as a
  courtesy to those who live near the airport and in the direct flight
  path."
  The second statement was a lie. The power reduction was neither normal
  nor desirable. The truth was: it was a concession-some said a mere public
  relations gesture -involving risk to aircraft safety and human life.
  Pilots fought noise abatement power restrictions bitterly. Many pilots,
  at risk of their careers, refused to observe them.
             AIRPORT           299

  Gwen had heard Vernon Demerest parody, in private, the announcement she had
  just made . . . "Ladies and gentlemen, at the most critical point of
  takeoff, when we need our best power and have a hundred other things to do
  in the cockpit, we are about to th,~ottle back drastically, then make a
  steep climbing turn at high gross weight and minimum speed. This is an
  exceedingly foolish maneuver for which a student pilot would be thrown out
  of flying school. However, we are doing it on orders from our airline
  employers and the Federal Aviation Administration because a few people down
  below, who built their houses long after the airport was established, are
  insisting that we tiptoe past. They don't give a damn about air safety, or
  that we are risking your lives and ours. So hang on tight, folks! Good luck
  to us all, and please start praying."
  Gwen smiled, remembering. There were so many things she appreciated about
  Vernon. He was energetically alive; he possessed strong feelings; when
  something interested him, he became actively involved. Even his
  failings-the abrasive manner, his conceit-were masculine and interesting.
  He could be tender, too-and was, in lovemaking, though responding eagerly
  to passion as Gwen had cause to know. Of all the men she knew, there was no
  one whose child she would bear more gladly than Vernon Dernerest's. In the
  thought there was a bitter sweetness.
  Replacing the p.a. microphone in its forward cabin niche, she was aware
  that the aircraft's taxiing pace had slowed; they must be near the takeoff
  point. These were the last few minutes she would have-for several hours to
  come-with any opportunity for private thoughts. After takeoff there would
  be no time for anything but work. Gwen had four stewardesses to supervise,
  as well as her own duties in the first class cabin. A good many overseas
  flights had male stewards directing cabin service, but Trans America
  encouraged senior women staffers like Gwen to take charge when they proved
  themselves capable.
  Now the aircraft had stopped. From a window Gwen could see the lights of
  another aircraft ahead, several others in line behind. The one ahead was
  turning onto a
 300          AIRPORT

 runway; Flight Two would be next. Gwen pulled down a folding seat and
 strapped herself in. The other girls had found seats elsewhere.
  She thought again: a bitter sweetness, and always the same single
  question recurring. Vernon's child, and her own-an abortion or not? ...
  Yes or no? To be or not to be? ... They were on the runway ... Abortion
  or no abortion? ... The engines' tempo was increasing. They were rolling
  already, wasting no time; in seconds, no more, they would be in the air
  ... Yes or no? To permit to live or condemn to die? How, between love and
  reality, conscience and commousense, did anyone decide?

  As it happened, Gwen Meighen need not have made the announcement about
  power reduction.
  On the flight deck, taxiing out, Captain Harris told Demerest gruffly,
  "I plan to ignore noise abatement procedures tonight."
  Vernon Demerest, who had just copied their complicated route clearance,
  received by radio-a task normally performed by the absent First
  Officer-nodded. "Damn right! I would too."
  Most pilots would have let it go at that, but, characteristically,
  Demerest pulled the flight log toward him and made an entry in the
  "Remarks" column: "N.A.P. not observed. Reason: weather, safety."
  Later, there might be trouble about that log entry, but it was the kind
  of trouble Demerest enjoyed and would meet head on.
  The cockpit lights were dimmed. Pre-takeoff checks had been completed.
  They had been lucky in the temporary traffic lull; it had allowed them
  to reach their takeoff point, at the head of runway two five, quickly,
  and without the long ground hiatus which had plagued most other flights
  tonight. Already though, for others following, the delay was building up
  again. Behind Trans America Flight Two was a growing line of waiting
  aircraft and a procession of others taxiing out from the terminal. On
  radio, the ATC ground controller was issuing a swift stream of
             AIRPORT           301

 instructions to flights of United Air Lines, Eastern, American, Air
 France, Flying Tiger, Lufthansa, Braniff, Contineiital, Lake Central,
 Delta, TWA, Ozark, Air Canada, Alitalia, and Pan Am, their assorted
 destinadons like~an index of world geography.
  Flight Two's additional fuel reserves, ordered by Anson Harris to allow
  for extra ground running time, had not, after all, been needed. But even
  with the heavy fuel load, they were still within safe takeoff limits, as
  Second Officer Jordan had just calculated, spreading out his graphs once
  more, as he would many times tonight and tomorrow before the flight
  ended.
  Both Demerest's and Harris's radios were now switched to runway control
  frequency.
  On runway two five, immediately ahead of Trans America, a British VC-10
  of BOAC, received word to go. It moved forward, with lumbering slowness
  at first, then swiftly. Its company colors-blue, white, and gold -gleamed
  briefly in the reflection of other aircrafts' lights, then were gone in
  a flurry of whirling snow and black jet exhaust. Immediately the ground
  controller's voice intoned, "Trans America Two, taxi into position,
  runway two five, and hold; traffic landing on runway one seven, left."
  One seven, left, was a runway which directly bisected runway two five.
  There was an element of danger in using the two runways together, but
  tower controllers had become adept at spacing aircraft-landing and taking
  off-so that no time was wasted, but no two airplanes reached the
  intersection at the same moment. Pilots, uncomfortably aware of the
  danger of collision when they heard by radio that both runways were in
  use, obeyed controllers' orders implicitly.
  Anson Harris swiftly and expertly jockeyed FEght Two on to runway two
  five.
  Peering out, through snow flurries, Demerest could see the lights of an
  airplane, about to touch down on one seven. He thumbed his mike button.
  "Trans America Two, Roger. In position and holding. We see the landing
  traffic."
 Even before the landing aircraft had bisected their
 302          AIRPORT

 own runwav, the controller's voice returned. "Trans America Two, cleared for
 takeoff. Go, man, go!"
  The final three words were not in any air traffic control manual, but to
  controller and pilots they had identical meaning: Get the hell moving, now!
  There's another flight landing right after the last. Already a fresh set of
  lights--ominously close to the airfield-was approaching runway one seven.
  Anson Harris had not waited. His outspread fingers slid the four main
  throttles forward to their full extent. He ordered, "Trim the throttles,"
  and briefly held his toe brakes on, allowing power to build, as Demerest
  set pressure ratios evenly for all four engines. The engines' sound
  deepened from a steady whine to a thunderous roar. Then Harris released the
  brakes and N-731-TA leaped forward down the runway.
  Vernon Dernerest reported to the tower, "Trans America Two on the roll,"
  then applied forward pressure to the control yoke while Harris used nose
  wheel steering with his left hand, his right returning to the throttles.
  Speed built. Demerest called, "Eighty knots." Harris nodded, released nose
  wheel steering and took over the control yoke . . . Runway lights flashed
  by in swirling snow. Near crescendo, the big jet's power surged ... At a
  hundred and thirty-two knots, as calculated earlier, Demerest called out
  "V-one"-notification to Harris that they had reached "decision speed" at
  which the takeoff could still be aborted and the aircraft stopped. Beyond
  V-one the takeoff must continue . . . Now they were past V-one ... Still
  gathering speed, they hurtled through the runways' intersection, glimpsing
  to their right a flash of landing fights of the approaching plane; in mere
  seconds the other aircraft would cross where Flight Two had just passed.
  Another risk-skillfully calculated-had worked out; only pessimists believed
  that one day such a risk might not ... As speed reached a hundred and
  fifty-four knots, Harris began rotation, easing the control column back.
  The nose wheel left the runway surface; they were in lift-off attitude,
  ready to
             AIRPORT           303

 quit the ground. A moment later, with speed still increasimy, they were
 in the air.
 Harris said quietly, "Gear up."
  Demerest reached out, raising a lever on the central instrument panel.
  The sound of the retracting landing gear reverberated through the
  aircraft, then stopped with a thud as the doors to the wheel wells
  closed.
  They were going up fast-passing through four hundred feet. In a moment,
  the night and clouds would swallow them.
 "Flaps twenty."
  Still performing first officer duty, Demerest obediently moved the
  control pedestal flap selector from thirty degrees to twenty. There was
  a brief sensation of sinking as the wing flaps-which provided extra lift
  at takeoff -came partially upward.
 "Flaps up."
 Now the flaps were fully retracted.
  Demerest noted, for his report later, that at no point during takeoff
  could he have faulted Anson Harris's performance in the slightest degree.
  He had not expeeted to. Despite the earlier needling, Vernon Demerest was
  aware that Harris was a top-grade captain, as exacting in performance-his
  own and others-as Demere,,).t was himself. It was the reason Dernerest
  had known in advance that their flight to Rome tonight would be, for
  himself, an easy journey.
  Only seconds had passed since leaving the ground; now, still climbing
  steeply, they passed over the runway's end, the lights below already
  dimming through cloud and falling snow. Anson Harris had ceased
  lookingout and was flying on instruments alone.
  Second Officer Cy Jordan was reaching forward from his flight engineer's
  seat, adjusting the throttles to equalize the power of all four engines.
  Within the clouds there was a good deal of buffeting; at the outset of
  their journey, the passengers behind were getting a rough ride. Dernerest
  snapped the "No Smoking" light switch off; the "Fasten Seat Belts" sign
  would remain on until Flight Two reached more stable air. Later, either
  Harris or Demerest would make an
 304          AIRPORT

 announcement to the passengers; but not yet. At the moment, flying was
 more important.
  Demerest reported to departure control. "Turning portside one eight zero;
  leaving fifteen hundred feet."
  He saw Anson Harris smile at his use of the words "turning portside"
  instead of "turning left." The former was correct but unofficial. It was
  one of Demerest's own phrases; many veteran pilots had them-a minor
  rebellion against ATC officialese which nowadays all flying people were
  supposed to hew to. Controllers on the ground frequently learned to
  recognize individual pilots by such personal idioms.
  A moment later Flight Two received radio clearance to climb to
  twenty-five thousand feet. Demerest acknowledged while Anson Harris kept
  the aircraft climbing. Up there in a few minutes from now they would be
  in clear, calm air, the storm clouds far below, and high above, in sight,
  the stars.

  The "turning portside" phrase had been noticed on the ground-by Keith
  Bakersfeld.
  Keith had returned to radar watch more than an hour ago, after the time
  spent in the controllers' locker room, alone, remembering the past and
  reaffirming his intention of tonight.
  Several times since then Keith's hand had gone instinctively into his
  pocket, touching the key of his covertly rented room at the O'Hagan Inn.
  Otherwise, he had concentrated on the radarscope in front of him. He was
  now handling arrivals from the east and the continuing heavy traffic
  volume demanded intensive concentration.
  He was no): concerned directly with Flight Two; however, the departure
  controller was only a few feet away and in a brief interval between his
  own transmissions Keith heard the "turning portside" phrase and recog-
  nized it, along with his brother-in-law's voice. Until then, Keith had
  no idea that Vernon Demerest was flying tonight; there was no reason why
  he should. Keith and Vernon saw little of each other. Like Mel, Keith had
  never achieved any close rapport with his brother-
                AIRPORT          305

 in-law, though there bad been none of the friction between thern which
 marred relations between Dernerest and Mel.
  Shortly after Flight Two's departure, Wayne Tevis, the radar supervisor,
  propelled his castor-equipped chair across to Keith.
  "Take live, buddyboy," Tevis said in his nasal Texan drawl. "I'll spell
  you. Your big brother dropped in."
  As he unplugged his headset and turned, Keith made out the fig-ure of Mel
  behind him in the shadows. He remembered his earlier hope that Mel would
  not come here tonight; at the time Keith feared that a meeting between
  the two of them might be more than he could handle emotionally, Now he
  found that he was glad Mel had come. They bad always been good friends
  as well as brothers, and it was right and proper there should be a
  leave-taking, though Mel would not know that it was that-at least, until
  he learned tomorrow.
  "Hi," Mel said. "I was passing by. How have things been?"
 Keith shrugged. "I guess, all right."
  "Coffee?" Mel had picked up two take-out coffees from one of the airport
  restaurants on his way. They were in a paper bag; he offered one of the
  cups to Keith and took the other himself.
  "Thanks." Keith was grateful for the coffee as well as for the break. Now
  that he was away from the radarscope, if only briefly, he realized that
  his own mental tension had been accumulating again within the past hour.
  He observed, as if watching someone else, that his hand holding the
  coffee cup was not entirely steady.
  Mel glanced around the busy radar room. He was careful not to look too
  obviously at Keith whose appearance-tbe gaunt, strained face with deep
  hollows beneath the eyes-had shocked him. Keith's appearance had
  deteriorated over recent months; tonight, Mel thought, his brother looked
  worse than at any time before.
  His mind still on Keith, he nodded toward the profusion of radar
  equipment. "I wonder what the old man would have thought of all this."
 306          AIRPORT

  The "old man" was-had been-their father, Wally (Wild Blue) Bakersfeld,
  stick-and-goggles aviator, stunt flier, crop duster, night mail carrier,
  and parachute jumper-the last when he needed money badly enough. Wild
  Blue had been a contemporary of Lindbergh, a crony of Orville Wright, and
  had flown to the end of his life, which terminated abruptly in a filmed
  Hollywood stunt sequence-an airplane crash, intended to be simulated, but
  which turned out to be real. It happened when Mel and Keith were in their
  teens, but not before Wild Blue had inculcated in both boys an acceptance
  of aviation as their way of life, which persisted into adulthood. In
  Keith's case, Mel sometimes thought, the father had done his younger son
  a disservice.
  Keith shook his head without answering Mel's question, which didn't
  matter because it had been only rhetorical, Mel marking time while
  wondering how best to approach what was uppermost in his mind. He decided
  to do it directly-,
  Keeping his voice low, Mel said, "Keith, you're not well; you're looking
  damned awful. I know it, you know it; so why pretend? If you'll let me,
  I'd like to help. Can we talk-about whatever the trouble is? We've always
  been honest with each other."
  "Yes," Keith acknowledged, "we've always been that." He sipped his
  coffee, not meeting Mel's eyes.
  The reference to their father, though casual, had moved Keith strangely.
  He remembered Wild Blue well; he had been a poor provider-the Bakersfeld
  family was perpetually short of money-but a genial man with his children,
  especially if the talk was about flying, as the two boys usually wanted
  it to be. Yet in the end it was not Wild Blue who had been a father
  figure to Keith, but Mel; Met Bakersfeld who possessed the sound sense
  and stability, as far back as Keith remembered, whicE their father
  lacked. It was Mel who always looked out for Keith, though never being
  ostentatious about it, or -werprotective as some older brothers were,
  robbing a y,)unger boy of dignity. Mel had a facility, even then, for
  doing things for people and making them feel good at the same time.
              AIRPORT          307

  Mel had shared things with Keith, had been considerate and thoughtful,
  even in small ways. He still was. Bringing the coffee tonight was an
  example, Keith thought, then checked himself: Don't wax sentimental over
  a carton of coffee just because this is a last meeting. This time,
  Keith's aloneness, his anguish and guilt were beyond Mel's fixing. Even
  Mel could not bring back to life little Valerie Redfern and her parents.
  Mel motioned with his bead and they moved to the corridor outside the
  radar room.
  "Listen, old chum," Mel said. "You need a break from all this-a long one;
  perhaps more than a break. Maybe you need to get away for good."
  For the first time Keith smiled. "You've been listening to Natalie."
 "Natalie's apt to talk a lot of sense."
  Whatever Keith's other problems might be, Mel reflected, he had been
  outstandingly fortunate in Natalie. The thought of his sister-in-law
  reminded Mel of his own wife, Cindy, who presumably was still on her way
  to the airport. Comparing your own marriage unfavorably with someone
  else's was disloyal, Mel supposed; at times, though, it was hard not to
  do it. He wondered if Keith really knew just how lucky-at least in that
  important area-he had been.
  "There's something else," Mel said. "I haven't brought it up before, but
  maybe now's the time. I don't think you've ever told me the whole of what
  happened at Leesburg-that day, the accident. Maybe you didn't tell
  anyone, because I've read all the testimony. Is there something else;
  that you've never told?"
 Keith hesitated only momentarily. "Yes."
  "I figur,.-d there might be." Met chose his words carefully; he sensed
  that what was passing between them could be of critical importance. "But
  I also figured if you wantod me to know, you'd tell me; and if you
  didn't, wcll, it was none of my business. Sometimes, though, if you care
  about someone enough-say, like a brother-you ought to make it your
  business, whether they want you to butt in or not. So I'm making this
  mine now." He added softly, "You hear me?"
 308          AIRPORT

  "Yes," Keith said, "I hear you." He thought: He could stop this
  conversation, of course; perhaps he should stop it now, at once-since it
  was pointless-by excusing himself and going back to the radarscope. Mel
  would assume they could resume later, not knowing that for the two of
  them together, there would be no later.
  "That day at Leesburg," Mel insisted. "The part you've never told-it has
  something to do with the way you feel, the way you are, right now. Hasn't
  it?"
 Keith shook his head. "Leave it alone, Mel. Please!"
 "Then I'm right. There is a relationship, isn't there?"
  What was the point of denying the obvious? Keith nodded. "Yes."
  "Won't you tell me? You have to tell someone; sooner or later you have
  to." Mel's voice was pleading, urgent. "You can't live with this
  thing-whatever it is -inside you forever. Who better to tell than me? I'd
  understand."
  You can't live with this . . . Who better to tell than me?
  It seemed to Keith that his brother's voice, even the sight of Mel, was
  coming to him through a tunnel, from the distant end, far away. At the
  farther end of the tunnel, too, were all the other people-Natalie, Brian,
  Theo, Perry Yount, Keith's friends-with whom he had lost communication
  long since. Now, of them all, Mel alone was reaching out, striving to
  bridge the gap between them ... but the tunnel was long, their apartness
  -after all the length of time that Keith bad been alone -too great.
 And yet ...
  As if sorreone else were speaking, Keith asked, "You mean tell you here?
  Now?"
 Mel urged, "Why not?"
  Why not indeed? Something within Keith stirred; a sense of waating to
  unburden, even though in the end it could chanve nothing ... Or could it?
  Wasn't that what the Confes~ional was all about; a catharsis, an exorcism
  of sin through acknowledgment and contrition? The difference, of course,
  was that the Confessional gave forgiveness and expiation, and for Keith
  there could be
              AIRPORT          309

 no expiation--ever. At least . . . he hadn't thought so. Now he wondered
 what Mel might say.
  Somewhere in Keith's mind a door, which had been closed, inched open.
  "I suppose there's no reason," he said slowly, "why I shouldn't tell you.
  It won't take long."
  Mel remained silent. Instinct told him that if wrong words were spoken
  they could shatter Keith's mood, could cut off the confidence which
  seemed about to be given, which Mel had waited so long and anxiously to
  hear. He reasoned: if he could finally learn what bedeviled Keith,
  between them they might come to grips with it. Judging by his brother's
  appearance tonight, it had better be soon.
  "You've read the testimony," Keith said. His voice was a monotone. "You
  just said so. You know most of what happened that day."
 Mel nodded.
  "What you don't know, or anybody knows except me; what didn't come out
  at the inquiry, what I've thought about over and over . . ." Keith
  hesitated; it seemed as if he might not continue.
  "For God's sake! For your own reason, for Natalie's sake, for mine-go
  on!"
 It was Keith's turn to nod. "I'm going to."
  He began describing the morning at Leesburg a year and a half before; the
  air traffic picture when he left for the washroom; supervisor Perry
  Yount; the trainee controller left in immediate charge. In a moment,
  Keith thought, he would admit how he had loitered; how he failed the
  others through indifference and negligence; how he returned to duty too
  late; how the accident, the multiple tragedy of the Redferns' deaths, had
  been solely his own doing; and how others were blamed. Now that at last
  he was doing what he had longed to, without knowing it, there was a sense
  of blessed relief. Words, like a cataract long damned, began tumbling
  out.
 Mel listened.
  Abrup0y, a door farther down the corridor opened. A voice-he towe)- watch
  chief's---called, "Oh, Mr. BakersfelV'
 310          AIRPORT

  His footstcps echoing along the corridor, the tower chief walke(; toward
  them. "Lieutenant Ordway has been trying to reach you, Mr. Bakersfeld;
  so has the Snow Desk. They both want you to call." He nodded. "Hi,
  Keith!"
  Mel wantod to cry out, to shout for silence or delay, plead to be alone
  with Keith for a few minutes more. But he knew it was no good. At the
  first sound of the tower chief's voice Keith had stopped in mid-sentence
  as if a switch were snapped to "off."
  Keith had not, after all, reached the point of describing his own guilt
  to Mel. As he responded automatically to the tower chief's greeting, he
  wondered: Why had be begun at all? What could he have hoped to gain?
  There could never be any gain, never any forgetting. No confession-to
  whomever made-would exorcise memory. Momentarily he had grasped at what
  he mistook for a faint flicker of hope, even perhaps reprieve. As it had
  to be, it proved illusory. Perhaps it was as well that the interruption
  occurred when it did.
  Once more, Keith realized, a mantle of loneliness, like an invisible
  thick curtain, surrounded him. Inside the curtain he was alone with his
  thoughts, and inside his thoughts was a private torture chamber where no
  one, not even a brother, could reach through.
  From that torture chamber . . . waiting, always waiting . . . there could
  be only one relief. It was the way be bad already chosen, and would carry
  through.
  "I guess they could use you back inside, Keith," the tower watch chief
  said. It was the gentlest kind of chiding. Keith had already had one
  work-break tonight; another inevitably threw a heavier load on other
  people. It was also a reminder to Mel, perhaps unintended, that as
  air-port general manager his writ did not run here.
  Keith mumbled something and gave a distant nod. With a serise of
  helplessness, Mel watched his brother return to the radar room. He had
  heard enough to know that it was desperately important he should hear
  more. He wondc~red when that would be, and how. A few minutes ago he had
  broken through Keith's reserve, his
             AIRPORT           311

 secrecy. Would it happen again? With despair, Mel doubted it.
  For sure, there would be no more confidences from Keith tonight.
  "I'm sony, Mr. Bakersfeld." As if belatedly guessing Mel's thoughts, the
  tower chief spread his hands. "You try to do the best for everybody. It
  isn't always easy."
  "I know." Met felt like sighing, but restrained himself. When something
  like this happened, you could only hope for the right occasion to occur
  again; meanwhile you got on with other things you had to do.
  "Tell me, please," Mel said, "what were those mes
 sages again' ' "'
 The tower chief repeated them.
  Instead of telephoning the Snow Control Desk, Mel walked down one floor of
  the control tower and went in. Danny Farrow was still presiding over the
  busy snow clearance command console.
  There was a query about priorities in clearing the aircraft parking areas
  of competing airlines, which Mel settled, then checked on the situation
  concerning the blocked runway, three zero. There was no change, except that
  Joe Patroni was now on the airfield and had taken charge of attempts to
  move the mired A6reoMexican 707, which was still preventing the runway
  being used. A few minutes earlier, Patroni had reported by radio that he
  expected to make a new attempt to move the aircraft within an hour. Knowing
  Joe Patroni's reputation as a top-notch troubleshooter, Mel decided there
  was nothing to be gained by demanding a more detailed report.
  At the Snow Desk Mel remembered the message to call Police Lieutenant
  Ordway. Assuming that the lieutenant was still in the terminal, Mel had him
  paged and, a few moments later, Ordway came on the line. Mel expected the
  lieutenant's call to be about the anti-noise delegation of Meadowood
  residents. It wasn't.
  "The Meadowood people are starting to come in, but they haven't been a
  problem and they haven't asked for you yet," Ned Ordway said when Mel
  raised the question. "I'll let you know when they do."
 312          AIRPORT

  What he had called about, the policeman reported, was a woman who had
  been picked up by one of his men. She was crying, and apparently
  wandering aimlessly in the main terminal. "We couldn't get any sense out
  of her, but she wasn't doing anything wrong so I didn't want to take her
  to the station house. She seemed upset enough without that."
 "What did you do?"
  Ordway said apologetically, "There aren't many quiet places around here
  tonight, so I put her in the anteroom outside your office. I thought I'd
  let you know in case you got back and wondered."
 "That's all right. Is she alone?"
  "One of my men was with her, though he may have left by now. But she's
  harmless; I'm sure of that. We'll check on her again soon."
  "I'll be back at my office in a few minutes," Mel said. "I'll see if I
  can do any good myself." He wondered if he would have more success
  talking with the unknown woman than he had had with Keith; he doubted if
  he could do worse. The thought of Keith, who seemed close to breaking
  point, still troubled Mel deeply.
  As an afterthought, he asked, "Did you find out the woman's name?"
  "Yes, we got that much. It's a Spanish-sounding name. Just a minute; I
  have it written down."
  There was a pause, then Lieutenant Ordway said, "Her name is Guerrero.
  Mrs. Inez Guerrero."

  Tanya Livingston said incredulously, "You mean Mrs. Quonsc--tt's aboard
  Flight Two?"
  "I'm afraid there's no doubt of it, Mrs. Livingston. There was a little
  old lady, exactly the way you've described her." The gate agent who had
  supervised boarding of The Golden Argosy was in the D.T.M.'s office with
  Tanya and young Peter Coakley, the latter still mortified at having been
  bamboozled by Mrs. Ada Quonsett while she was in his charge.
  The gate agent had come to the office a few minutes ago in response to
  Coakley's telephoned warning, to all
              AIRPORT          313

 Trans America gate positions, about the elusive Mrs. Quonsett.
  "It just didn't occur to me there was anything wrong," the gate agent
  said. "We let other visitors aboard tonight; they came off." He added
  defensively, "Anyway, I'd been under pressure all evening. We were short
  staffed, and apart from the time you were there helping, I was doing the
  work of two people. You know that."
  "Yes," Tanya said, "I know." She had no intention of passing out blame.
  If anyone was responsible for what had happened, it was Tanya herself.
  "It was just after you left, Mrs. Livingston. The old lady said something
  about her son, I think it was, leaving his wallet. She even showed it to
  me. It bad money in it, she said, which was why I didn't take it."
  "She'd already figured that. It's one of her regular gags.11
  "I didn't know it, so I let her go aboard. From then until a few minutes
  ago when I got the phone call, I never gave her another thought."
  "She fools you," Peter Coakley said. He gave a sideways glance at Tanya.
  "She sure fooled me."
  The agent shook his head. "If I didn't have to believe it, I wouldn't,
  even now. But she's aboard, all right." He described the discrepancy
  between the tourist section head count and the ticket tally, then
  afterward, the ramp supervisor's decision to let the aircraft go, rather
  than incur further delay.
  Tanya said quickly, "I suppose there's no doubt Flight Two's already
  taken off."
  "Yes, they have. I checked on my way here. Even if they hadn't, I doubt
  they'd bring the aircraft back in, especially tonight."
  "No they wouldn't." Nor was there the slightest chance, Tanya knew, of
  The Golden ^qosy changing course and returning for a landing, merely
  because of Ada Quonsett. The time and cost to disembark one stowaway
  would run to thousands of dollars-far more than to take Mrs. Quonsett to
  Rome and bring her back.
 314          AIRPORT

  "Is there a refueling stop?" Sometimes, Tanya knew, Europe-bound flights
  made non-scheduled stops for fuel at Montreal or Newfoundland. If so,
  there would be a chance to pull Mrs. Quonsett off, robbing her of the
  satisfaction of getting all the way to Italy.
  "I asked Operations about that," the agent answered. "The flight plan
  shows they're going right through. No stops."
 Tanya exclaimed, "Damn that old woman!"
  So Ada Quonsett was going to get her ride to Italy and back, with
  probably a night's lodging in between, and with meals supplied-all at
  airline expense, Tanya thought angrily: she had underestimated the old
  lady's determination not to be sent back to the West Coast; she had erred
  also in assuming that Mrs. Quonsett would head only for New York.
  Barely fifteen minutes earlier Tanya had thought of the developing
  contest between herself and Ada Quonsett as a battle of wits. If it was,
  without doubt the little old lady from San Diego had won.
  With uncharacteristic savageness, Tanya wished that the airline would
  make an exception and prosecute Mrs. Quonsett. But she knew they
  wouldn't.
 Young Peter Coakley started to say something.
 Tanya snapped, "Oh, shut up!"
  The District Transportation Manager returned to his office a few minutes
  after Coakley and the gate agent left. The D.T.M., Bert Weatherby, was
  a hard-working, bard-driving executive in his late forties, who had come
  up the hard way, beginning as a ramp baggage handler. Normal.ly
  considerate, and with a sense of humor, tonight he was tired and testy
  from three days of continuous strain. He listened impatiently to Tanya's
  report in which she accepted the main responsibility herself, mentioning
  Peter Coakley only incidentally.
  Running a hand through his sparse graying bair, the D.T.M. observed, "I
  like to check that there's still some left up there, It's things like
  this that are making the rest of it fall out." He considered, then
  rasped, "You got us into this mess; you'd better do the salvaging. Talk
  to Flight Dispatch; ask them to call the captain of Flight
              AIRPORT          315

 Two on company radio and fiR him in on what happened. I don't know what
 he can do. Personally, I'd like to throw the old hag out at thirty
 thousand feet, but that'll be up to him. By the way, who is the captain?"
 "Captain Demerest."
  The D.T.M. groaned. "It would be. He'll probably think it's all a great
  joke because management boobed. Anyway, advise him the old biddy's to be
  detained on board after landing, and is not to be allowed off without
  escort. If tMe Italian authorities want to jail her, so much the better.
  Then get a signal off to our station manager in Rome. When they arrive
  it'll be his baby, and I hope he's got more competent people around him
  than I have."
 "Yes, sir," Tanya said.
  She started to tell the D.T.M. of the other matter concerning Might
  Two-the suspicious-looking man with an attach6 case whom Customs
  Inspector Standish had seen going aboard. Before she could finish, the
  D.T.M. cut her off.
  "Forget it! What do the Customs people want us to do-their job? As long
  as the airline's not involved, I don't give a damn what the guy's
  carrying. If Customs here want to know what's in his case, let them ask
  Italian Customs to check, not us. I'll be damned if I'll interrogate, and
  maybe offend, a fare-paying passenger for something that's none of our
  business."
  Tanya hesitated. Something about the man with the attach6 case-even
  though she hadn't actually seen him -bothered her. There were instances
  she had heard of where ... Of course, the idea was absurd ...
  "I was wondering," she said. "He might not be smuggling at all."
 The D.T.M. snapped, "I said forget it."
  Tanya left. Back at her desk, she began writing the message to Captain
  Dernerest of Hight Two concerning Mrs. Ada Quonsett
 316          AIRPORT

               2

 In a taxi en route to the airport from downtown, Cindy Bakersfeld leaned
 back against the rear seat and closed her eyes. She was neither aware, nor
 cared, that outside it was still snowing, nor that the taxi was moving
 slowly in heavy traffic. She was in no hurry. A wave of physical pleasure
 and contentment (Was the right word euphoria? Cindy wondered) swept over
 her.
 The cause was Derek Eden.
  Derek Eden, who had been at the Archidona Relief Fund cocktail party
  (Cindy still didn't know which Archidona); who had brought her a
  triple-strength Bourbon, which she hadn't drunk, then had propositioned
  her in the most unimaginative way. Derek Eden, until today only a
  slightly known Sun-Times reporter with a second-grade by-line; Derek Eden
  with the dissolute face, the casual air, the nondescript impressed
  clothes; Derek Eden and his beat-up filthy-inside-andout Chevrolet; Derek
  Eden, who had caught Cindy in a barriers-down moment, when she needed a
  man, any man, and she hadn't hoped for much; Derek Eden who had proved
  to be the finest and most exciting lover she had ever known.
  Never, never before had Cindy experienced anyone like him. Oh, God!, she
  thought; if ever there was sensual, physical perfection, she attained it
  tonight. More to the point; now that she had known Derek Eden ... dear
  Derek ... she wanted him again--often. Fortunately, it was unmistakable
  that he now felt the same way about her.
  Still leaning back in the rear of the taxi, she relived mentally the past
  two hours.
  They had driven, in the awful old Chevrolet, from the Lake Michigan Inn
  to a smallish hotel near the Merchandise Mart. A doorman accepted the car
  disdainfully -Derek Eden didn't seem to notice-and inside, in the
             AIRPORT           317

 lobby, the night manager was waiting. Cindy gathered that one of the phone
 calls which her escort had made was to hcre. There was no formality of
 checking in, and the night manager showed them directly to a room on the
 eleventh floor. After leaving the key, and with a quick "goodnight," he
 left.
  The room was so-so; old fashioned, spartan, and with cigarette bums on
  the furniture, but clean. It had a double bed. Beside the bed, on a
  table, was an unopened bottle of Scotch, some mixes and ice. A card on
  the liquor tray read, "With the manager's compliments"; Derek Eden
  inspected the card, then put it in his pocket.
  When Cindy inquired, later on, Derek explained, "Sometimes a hotel will
  oblige the press. When they do, we don't make any promises; the paper
  wouldn't go for it. But maybe sometimes a reporter or a deskman will put
  the hotel's name in a story if it's an advantage; or if the story's a bad
  one-like a death; hotels hate thatwe might leave it out. As I say, no
  promises. You do the best you can."
  They had a drink, and chatted, then another, and during the second drink
  he began to kiss her. It was soon after that she became aware of the
  gentleness of his hands, which he passed through her hair quite a lot to
  begin with, in a way which she could feel through her entire body; then
  the hands began exploring slowly, oh, so slowly ... and it was also then
  that Cindy began to realize this might be something special.
  While he was undressing her, demonstrating a finesse which he had lacked
  earlier, he whispered, "Don't let's hurry, Cindy-either of us." But soon
  after, when they were in bed, and wonderfully warm, as Derek Eden
  promised in the car they would be, she had wanted to hurry, and cried
  out, "Yes, yes! ... Oh, please! I can't wait!" But he insisted gently,
  "Yes, you can. You must." And she obeyed him, being utterly, deliciously
  in his control, while he led her, as if by the hand like a child, close
  to the brink, then back a pace or two while they waited with a feeling
  like floating in air; then near once more, and back, and the same again
  and again, the bliss of it all near-unendurable; and finally when neither
 318          AIRPORT

 of them could wait longer, there was a shared crescendo like a hymn of
 heaven and a thousand sweet symphonies; and if Cindy had been able to
 choose a moment for dying, because nothing afterward could ever be that
 moment's equal, she would have chosen then.
  Later, Cindy decided that one of the things she liked about Derek Eden
  was his total lack of humbug. Ten minutes after their supreme moment, at
  a point where Cindy's normal breathing was returning and her heart
  regaining its regular beat, Derek Eden propped himself on an elbow and
  lighted cigarettes for them both.
  "We were great, Cindy." He smiled. "Let's play a return match soon, and
  lots of others after that." It was, Cindy realized, an admission of two
  things: that what they had experienced was solely physical, a sensual ad-
  venture, and neither should pretend that it was more; yet together they
  had attained that rare Nirvana, an absolute sexual compatibility. Now,
  what they had available, whenever needed, was a private physical
  paradise, to be nurtured and increasingly explored.
 The arrangement suited Cindy.
  She doubted if she and Derek Eden would have much in common outside a
  bedroom, and he was certainly no prize to be exhibited around the social
  circuit. Without even thinking about it, Cindy knew she would have more
  to lose than gain by being seen publicly in Derek's company. Besides, he
  had already intimated that his own marriage was solid, though Cindy
  guessed he wasn't getting as much sex at home as he needed, a condition
  with which she sympathized, being in the same situation herself.
  Yes, Derek Eden was someone to be treasured-but not to become involved
  with emotionally. She would treasure him. Cindy resolved not to be
  demanding, nor let their love-making become too frequent. A single ses-
  sion like tonight's would last Cindy a long time, and could be relived
  just by thinking about it. Play a little hard-to-get, she told herself;
  see to it that Derek Eden went on wanting her as much as she wanted him.
  That way, the whole thing could last for years.
 Cindy's discovery of Derek had also, in a strange
             AIRPORT           319

 way, provided her with a freedom she had not possessed before.
  Now that she had better-than-average sex available as it were, on a
  separate shelf, she could view the choice between Mel and Lionel Urquhart
  more objectively.
  Her marriage to Mel had, in some ways, already terminated. Mentally and
  sexually they were estranged; their slightest disagreement resulted in
  bitter quarreling. All that Mel appeared to think about nowadays was his
  damned airport. Each day, it seemed, thrust Mel and Cindy farther apart.
  Lionel, who was satisfactory in all respects except in bed, wanted
  divorces all around so that he could marry Cindy.
  Mel detested Cindy's social ambitions. Not only would he do nothing to
  advance them; he impeded them. Lionel, on the other hand, was well
  established in Illinois society, saw nothing unusual in Cindy's social
  aims and would, and could, help her fulfill them.
  Until now, Cindy's choice had been complicated by the remembrance of her
  fifteen years of marriage to Mel and the good times together, mental and
  physical, they had once enjoyed. She had hoped vaguely that the past
  -including the satisfactions of sex-might somehow be rekindled. It was,
  she admitted to herself, a delusive hope.
  Lionel, as a sexual partner, had little or nothing to offer. Neither-at
  least for Cindy, any more-had Mel.
  But if sex were eliminated-an elimination which Derek Eden, like a
  secretly stabled stallion, had now made possible-Lionel, as a competitor
  to Mel, came out far ahead.
 In the taxi, Cindy opened her eyes and mused.
  She wouldn't make any firm decision until she had talked with Mel. Cindy
  didn't like decisions, anyway, and invariably put them off until they
  could be delayed no longer. Also, there were still imponderables in-
  volved: the children; memories of the years with Mel, which hadn't all
  been bad; and when you once cared deeply for someone, you never shook it
  off entirely. But
 320          AIRPORT

 she was glad she had decided, after all, to come out here tonight.
  For the first time since leaving downtown Cindy leaned forward, peering
  out into the darkness to see if she could determine where they were. She
  couldn't. Through misted windows she could see snow and many other cars,
  all moving slowly. She guessed they were on the Kennedy Expressway, but
  that was all.
  She was aware of the cab driver's eyes watching her in his rear-view
  mirror. Cindy had no idea what kind of man the driver was; she hadn't
  taken notice when she got into the cab back at the hotel, which she and
  Derek left separately since they decided they might as well start being
  discreet immediately. Anyway, tonight all faces and bodies merged into
  the face and body of Derek Eden.
  "That's Portage Park over there, madam," the driver said. "We're getting
  close to the airport. Won't be long."
 "Thank you."
  "Lotsa traffic going out there besides us. Guess those airport people
  must have had their problems, what with the big storm and all."
  Who the hell cares?, Cindy thought. And didn't anyone ever think or talk
  of anything besides that cruddy airport? But she kept quiet.
  At the main terminal entrance Cindy paid off the cab and hurried inside
  to avoid wet snow which gusted under canopies and swirled along
  sidewalks. She threaded the crowds in the main concourse, moving around
  one sizable group which seemed to intend some kind of demonstration
  because several people were helping assemble a portable public address
  system. A Negro police lieutenant, whom Cindy had met several times with
  Mel, was talking to two or three men from the group who appeared to be
  leaders. The policeman was shaking his head vigorously. Not really
  curiousnothing about this place really interested her-Cindy moved on,
  heading for the airport administrative offices on the mezzanine.
  Lights were on in all the offices, though most were unoccupied and there
  was none of the clatter of type-
               AIRPORT           321

 writers or hum of conversation, as during daytime working hours. At least
 some people, Cindy thought, had sense enough to go home at night.
  The only person in sight was a middle-aged woman, in drab clothes, in the
  anteroom to Mel's office. She was seated on a settee from where she
  seemed to be looking vacantly into space, and took no notice as Cindy
  came in. The woman's eyes were red as if she had been crying. Judging by
  her clothes and shoes, which were sodden, she had been outside in the
  storm.
  Cindy gave the other woman only a mildly curious glance before going into
  Mel's office. The office was empty, and Cindy sat down in a chair to
  wait. After a few moments she closed her eyes and resumed her pleasant
  thoughts about Derek Eden.
  Mel hurried in-he was limping more than usual, Cindy noticed-about ten
  minutes later.
  "Oh!" He appeared surprised when he saw Cindy, and went back to close the
  door. "I really didn't think you'd come."
 "I suppose you'd have preferred me not to."
  Mel shook his head. "I still don't think there's anything to be gained
  by it-at least, not for what you seem to have in mind." He looked at his
  wife appraisingly, wondering what her real purpose was in coming here
  tonight. He had learned long ago that Cindy's motives were usually
  complicated, and frequently quite different from what they appeared to
  be. He had to admit, though, that she looked her best tonight; positively
  glamorous, with a kind of radiance about her. Unfortunately, the glamour
  no longer affected him personally.
  "Suppose you tell. me," Cindy said, "what you think I have in mind."
  He shrUgged. "I got the impression that what you wanted was a fight. It
  occurred to me that we had enough of them at home without arranging
  another here."
  "Perhaps we'll have to arrange something here; since you're hardly ever
  home any more."
 322          AIRPORT

  "I might be home, if the atmosphere were more congenial."
  They had been talking for just a few seconds, Cindy realized, and already
  were sniping at each other. It seemed impossible nowadays for the two of
  them to hold a conversation without that happening.
  Just the same, she could not resist answering, "Oh, really! That isn't
  usually the reason you give for not being at home. You're always claiming
  how all-fired important it is for you to be here at the airport-if
  necessary, twenty-four hours a day. So many important things--or so you
  say-are always happening."
 Mel said curtly, "Tonight they are."
 "But not other times?"
  "If you're asking whether I've sometimes stayed here in preference to
  coming home, the answer's yes."
  "At least this is the first time you've been honest about it."
  "Even when I do come home, you insist on dragging me to some stupid
  stuffed-shirt affair like tonight's."
  His wife said angrily, "So you never did intend to come tonight!"
 "Yes, I did. I told you so. But..."
  "But nothing!" Cindy could feel the short fuse of her temper burning.
  "You counted on something turning up to prevent you, the way it always
  does. So that you could weasel out and have an alibi; so you could
  convince yourself, even if you don't convince me, because I think you're
  a liar and a fake."
 "Take it easy, Cindy."
 "I won't take it easy."
 They glared at each other.
  What happened to them, Met wondered, that they had come to
  this?-squabbling like ill-bred children; dealing in pettiness; exchanging
  vicious gibes; and in all of it, he himself no better than Cindy.
  Something happened when they quarreled which demeaned them both. He
  wondered if it was always this way when things were sour with two people
  who had lived together for a long time. Was it because they knew, and
  therefore could probe painfully, each other's weaknesses? He had once
              AIRPORT          323

 heard someone say that a disintegrating marriage brought out the worst in
 both partners. In his own and Cindy's case it was certainly true.
  He tried to speak more reasonably. "I don't think I'm a liar, or a fake.
  But maybe you have a point about my counting on something turning up,
  enough to keep me away from the social things, which you know I hate. I
  just hadn't thought of it that way."
  When Cindy remained silent, he went on, "You can believe it or not, but
  I did intend to meet you tonight downtown-at least I think so. Maybe I
  didn't really, the way you said; I don't know. But I do know that I
  didn't arrange the storm, and, since it started, a lot of things have
  happened that-for real this time-have kept me here." He nodded toward the
  outer office. "One of them is that woman sitting out there. I told Lieu-
  tenant Ordway I'd talk to her. She seems to be in some sort of trouble."
  "Your wife's in trouble," Cindy said. "The woman out there can wait."
 He nodded. "All right."
  "We've had it," Cindy said. "You and me. Haven't we?"
  He waited before answering, not wanting to be hasty, yet reali7ing that
  now this had come up, it would be foolish to avoid the truth. "Yes," he
  said finally. "I'm afraid we have."
  Cindy shot back, "If only you'd change! If you'd see things my way. It's
  always been what you want to do, or don't. If you'd only do what I want.
  . . "
  "Like being out six nights a week in black tie, and white tie on the
  seventh?"
  "Well, why not?" Emotionally, imperiously, Cindy faced him. He bad always
  admired her in that kind of spunky mood, even when it was directed at
  himself. Even now ...
  "I guess I could say the same kind of thing," he told her. "About
  changing; all that. The trouble is, people don't change-not in what they
  are basically; they adapt. It's that-two people adapting to each other-
  that marriage is supposed to be about."
 324          AIRPORT

 "The adapting doesn't have to be one-sided."
  "It hasn't been with us," Mel argued, "no matter what you think. I've
  tried to adapt; I guess you have, too. I don't know who's made the most
  effort; obviously I think it's me, and you think it's you. The main thing
  is: though we've given it plenty of time to work, it hasn't."
  Cindy said slowly, "I suppose you're right. About the last bit, anyway.
  I've been thinking the same way too." She stopped, then added, "I think
  I want a divorce."
  "You'd better be quite sure. It's fairly important." Even now, Mel
  thought, Cindy was hedging about a decision, waiting for him to help her
  with it. If what they bad been saying were less serious, he would have
  smiled.
  "I'm sure," Cindy said. She repeated, with more conviction. "Yes, I'm
  sure."
  Mel said quietly, "Then I think it's the right decision for us both."
 For a second Cindy hesitated. "You're sure, too?"
 "Yes," he said. "I'm sure."
  The lack of argument, the quickness of the exchange, seemed to bother
  Cindy. She asked, "Then we've made a decision?"
 "Yes .11

  They still faced each other, but their -anger was gone.
  "Oh hell!" Mel moved, as if to take a pace forward. "I'm sorry, Cindy."
  "I'm sorry, too." Cindy stayed where she was. Her voice was more assured.
  "But it's the most sensible thing, isn't it?"
 He nodded. "Yes. I guess it is."
  It was over now. Both knew it. Only details remained to be attended to.
  Cindy was already making plans. "I shall have custody of Roberta and
  Libby, of course, though you'll always be able to see them. I'll never
  be difficult about that."
 "I didn't expect you would be."
 Yes, Mel mused, it was logical that the girls would go
             AIRPORT           325

 with their mother. He would miss them both, Libby especially. No outside
 meetings, however frequent, could ever be a substitute for living in the
 same house day by day. He remembered his talks with his younger daughter
 on the telephone tonight; what was it Libby had wanted the first time? A
 map of February. Well, he had one now; it showed some unexpected detours.
  "And I'll have to get a lawyer," Cindy said. "I'll let you know who it
  is."
  He nodded, wondering if all marriages went on to terminate so
  matter-of-factly once the decision to end them had been made. He supposed
  it was the civilized way of doing things. At any rate, Cindy seemed to
  have regained her composure with remarkable speed. Seated in the chair
  she had been occupying earlier, she was inspecting her face in a compact,
  repairing her make-up. He even had the impression that her thoughts had
  moved away from here; at the comers of her mouth there was the hint of
  a smile. In situations like this, Mel thought, women were supposed to be
  more emotional than men, but Cindy didn't show any signs of it, yet he
  himself was close to tears.
  He was aware of sounds-voices and people moving -in the office outside.
  There was a knock. Mel called, "Come in."
  It was Lieutenant Ordway. He entered, closing the door behind him. When
  he saw Cindy, he said, "Oh, excuse me, Mrs. Bakersfeld."
  Cindy glanced up, then away, without answering. Ordway, sensitive to
  atmosphere, stood hesitantly. "Perhaps I should come back."
 Mel asked, "What is it, Ned?"
  "It's the anti-noise demonstration; those Meadowood people. There are a
  couple of hundred in the main concourse; more coming in. They all wanted
  to see you, but I've talked them into sending a delegation, the way you
  suggested. They selected half a dozen, and there are three newspaper
  reporters; I said the reporters could come too." The policeman nodded
  toward the anteroom. "They're all waiting outside."
 326          AIRPORT

  He would have to see the delegation, Mel knew. He had never felt less
  like talking to anyone.
  "Cindy," he pleaded, "this won't take long. Will you wait?" When she
  didn't answer, he added, "Please!"
 She continued to ignore them both.
  "Look," Ordway said, "if this is a bad time, I'll tell these people
  they'll have to come back some other day."
  Mel shook his head. The commitment had been made; it was his own
  suggestion. "You'd better bring them in." As the policeman turned away,
  Mel added, ,, Oh, I haven't talked to that woman ... I've f orgotten her
  name."
  "Guerrero," Ordway said. "And you don't have to. She looked as if she was
  leaving when I came in."
  A few moments later the half dozen people from Meadowood-four men and two
  women-began filing in. The press trio followed. One of the reporters was
  from the Tribune-an alert, youngish man named Tomlinson who usually
  covered the airport and general aviation beat for his paper; Mel knew him
  well and respected his accuracy and fairness. Tomlinson's by-line also
  appeared occasionally in national magazines, The other two reporters were
  also known slightly to Melone a young man from the Sun-Times, the other
  an older woman from a local weekly.
  Through the open door-way, Mel could see Lieutenant Ordway talking to the
  woman outside, Mrs. Guerrero, who was standing, fastening her coat.
 Cindy remained where she was.
  "Good evening." Mel introduced himself, then motioned to settees and
  chairs around his office. "Please sit down."
  "Okay, we will," one of the men in the delegation said. He was
  expensively well-dressed, with precisely combed, graystreaked hair, and
  seemed to be the group's leader. "But I'll tell you we're not here to get
  cozy. We've some plain, blunt things to say and we expect the same kind
  of answers, not a lot of doubletalk."
  "I'll try not to give you that. Will you teU me who you are?"
             AIRPORT           327

  "My name is Elliott Freemantle. I'm a lawyer. I represent these people,
  and all the others down below."
  "All right, Mr. Freemantle," Mel said. "Why don't you begin?"
  The door to the anteroom was still open. The woman who had been outside,
  Mel noticed, had gone. Now, i,led Ordway came in, closing the office
  door.

               3

 Trans Amcrica Airlines Flight Two was twenty minutes out of Lincoln
 International, and in a steady climb which would continue until reaching
 thirty-three thousand feet near Detroit, in eleven more minutes. Already
 the flight was on its airway and great circle course for Rome. For the
 past several minutes the aircraft had been in smooth air, the storm clouds
 and accompanying turbulence now far below. A three-quarter moon hung above
 and ahead like a lopsided lantern; all around, the stars were sharp and
 clear.
  On the flight deck, initial pressures were over. Captain Harris had made
  a progress announcement to the passengers over the p.a. system. The three
  pilots were settling down to routines of their long flight.
  Under the second officer's table, behind Captain Harris and Demerest, a
  chime sounded loudly. At the same instant, on a radio panel forward of
  the throttles, an amber light winked on. Both chime and light indicated
  a radio call on Selcal radio system through which most airliners could
  be called individually, as if by private telephone. Each aircraft, of
  Trans America and other major airlines, had its own separate call code,
  transmitted and received automatically. The signals which had just been
  actuated for aircraft N-731-TA would be seen or heard on no other flight.
 328          AIRPORT

  Anson Harris switched from the radio to which be bad been listening on
  air route control frequency, and acknowledged, "This is Trans America
  Two."
  "Flight Two, this is Trans America dispatcher, Cleveland. I have a
  message for the captain from D.T.M., LIA. Advise when ready to copy."
  Vernon Demerest, Harris observed, had also changed radio frequencies. Now
  Demerest pulled a notepad toward him and nodded.
  Harris instructed, "We're ready, Cleveland. Go ahead."
  The message was that which Tanya Livingston had written concerning Flight
  Two's stowaway, Mrs. Ada Quonsett. As it progressed, with the description
  of the little old lady from San Diego, both captains began smihng. The
  message ended by asking confirmation that Mrs. Quonsett was aboard.
  "We will check and advise," Harris acknowledged. When the transmission
  ended, he clicked the radio controls back to air route control frequency.
  Vernon Demerest, and Second Officer Jordan who had heard the message from
  an overhead speaker near his seat, were laughing aloud.
 The second officer declared, "I don't believe it!"
  "I believe it." Demerest chuckled. "All those boobs on the ground, and
  some ancient old duck fooled them all!" He pushed the call button for the
  forward galley phone. "Hey!" he said, when one of the stewardesses
  answered. "Tell Gwen we want her in the office."
  He was still chuckling when the flight deck door opened. Gwen Meighen
  came in.
  Demerest read Gwen the Selcal message with Mrs. Quonsett's description.
  "Have you seen her?"
  Gwen shook her head. "I've hardly been back in tourist yet."
  "Go back," Dernerest told her, "and see if the old woman's there. She
  shouldn't be hard to spot."
 "If she is, what do you want me to do?"
 "Nothing. Just come back and report."
  Gwen was gone only a few minutes. When she returned, she was laughing Re
  the others.
              AIRPORT          329

 Dernerest swung around in his seat. "Is she there?"
  Gwen nodded. "Yes, in seat fourteen-B. She's just the way the message
  said, only more so."
 The second officer asked, "How old?"
  "At least seventy-five; probably nearer eighty. And she looks like
  something out of Dickens."
  Over his shoulder, Anson Harris said, "More like Arsenic and Old Lace."
 "Is she really a stowaway, Captain?"
  Harris shrugged. "On the ground they say so. And I guess it explains why
  your head count was wrong."
  "We can easily find ou ' t for sure," Gwen volunteered. "All I have to
  do is go back again and ask to see her ticket counterfoil."
 "No," Vernon Demerest said. "Let's not do that."
  As best they could in the darkened cockpit, the others regarded him
  curiously. After a second or so, Harris returned his eyes to the flight
  instruments; Second Officer Jordan swung back to his fuel charts.
  "Hold on," Demerest told Gwen. While she waited, he made a check point
  report on company radio.
  "All we were told to do," Dernerest said when he had finished the report,
  "was to see if the old lady's aboard. Okay, she is; and that's what I'll
  tell Flight Dispatch. I guess they'll have someone waiting for her at
  Rome; we can't do anything about that, even if we wanted to. But if the
  old girl's made it this far, and since we're not turning back, why make
  her next eight hours miserable? So leave her alone. Maybe, just before
  we get to Rome, we'll let her know she's been found out; then it won't
  be a whole big shock. But for the time being, let her enjoy her flight.
  Give Grandma some dinner, and she can watch the movie in peace."
  "You know," Gwen said; she was watching him thoughtfully. "There are
  times when I quite like

 you.11
  As Gwen left the flight deck, Demerest-still chuckling-changed radio
  channels and reported back himself to the Cleveland dispatcher.
  Anson Harris, who had his pipe alight, looked up from adjusting the
  auto-pilot and said drily, "I didn't
 330          AIRPORT

 think you were much of a one for the old ladies." He emphasized the "old."
 Demerest grinned, "I prefer younger ones."
 "So I'd lieard."
  The stowaway report, and his reply, had put Demerest in a thoroughly good
  humor. More relaxed than earlier, he added, "Opportunities change. Pretty
  soon you and I will have to settle for the not-so-young ones."
  "I already have." Harris puffed at his pipe. "For quite some time."
  Both pilots had one earpiece of their radio headsets pushed upward. They
  could converse normally, yet hear radio calls if any came in. The noise
  level of the flight deck-per,~istent but not overwhelming-was sufficient to
  give the two of them privacy.
  "You've always played it straight down the line, haven't you?" Demerest
  said. "With your wife, I mean. No mucking around; on layovers I've seen you
  reading books."
  This time Harris grinned. "Sometimes 1 go to a movie."
 "Any special reason?"
  "My wife was a stewardess-on DC-4s; that was bow we met. She knew what went
  on: the sleeping around, pregnancies, abortions, all that stuff. Later, she
  got to be a super-visor and had to deal with a lot of it in her job.
  Anyway, when we were married I made her a promise -the obvious one. I've
  always kept it."
 "I guess all those kids you had helped."
 "Maybe."
  Harris made another minute adjustment to the autopilot. As they talked, the
  eyes of both pilots, out of training and habit, swept the illuminated banks
  of instruments in front of them, as well as those to each side and above.
  An incorrect instrument reading would show at once if anything in the
  aircraft was malfunctioning. Nothing was.
 Demerest said, "How many children is it? Six?"
  "Seven." Harris smiled. "Four we planned, three we didn't. But it all
  worked out."
             AIRPORT           331

  "The ones you didn't plan-did you ever consider doing anything about
  them? Before they were born."
 Harris glanced sharply sideways. "Abortion?"
  Vernon Demerest had asked the question on impulse. Now he wondered why.
  Obviously, his two conversations earlier with Gwen had begun the train
  of thought about children generally. But it was uncharacteristic of him
  to be doing so much thinking about somethinglike an abortion for
  Gwen-which was essentially simple and straightforward. Just the same, be
  was curious about Harris's reaction.
 "Yes," Dernerest said. "That's what I meant."
  Anson Harris said curtly, "The answer's no." Less sharply, he added, "It
  happens to be something I have strong views about."
 "Because of religion?"
 Harris shook his head negatively. "I'm an agnostic."
 "What kind of views, then?"
 "You sure you want to hear?"
 "It's a long night," Dernerest said. "Why not?"
  On radio they listened to an exchange between air route control and a TWA
  flight, Paris-bound, which had taken off shortly after Trans America
  Flight Two. The TWA jet was ten miles behind, and several thousand feet
  lower. As Flight two continued to climb, so would TWA.
  Most alert pilots, as a result of listening to other aircraft
  transmissions, maintained a partial picture of nearby tralfic in their
  minds. Demerest and Harris both added this latest item to others already
  noted. When the ground-to-air exchange ended, Dernerest urged Anson
  Harris, "Go ahead."
  Harris checked their course and altitude, then began rcfffling his pipe.
  "I've studied a lot of history. I got interested in college and followed
  through after. Maybe you've done the same."
 "No," Demerest said. "Never more than I had to."
  "Well, if you go through it all-history, that is--one thing stands out.
  Every bit of human progress has happened for a single, simple reason: the
  elevation of the
 332          AIRPORT

 status of the individual. Each time civilization has stumbled into another
 age that's a little better, a bit more enlightened, than the one before
 it, it's because people cared more about other people and respected them
 as individuals. When they haven't cared, those have been the times of
 slipping backward. Even a short world history-if you read one-will prove
 it's true."
 "I'll take your word for it."
  "You don't have to. There are plenty of examples. We abolished slavery
  because we respected individual human life. For the same reason we
  stopped hanging children, and around the same time we invented habeas
  corpus, and now we've created justice for all, or the closest we can come
  to it. More recently, most people who think and reason are against
  capital punishment, not so much because of those to be executed, but for
  what taking a human life-any human life--does to society, which is all
  of us."
  Harris stopped. Straining forward against his seat harness, he looked
  outward from the darkened cockpit to the night surrounding them. In
  bright moonlight he could see a swirl of darkened cloudtops far below.
  With a forecast of unbroken cloud along the whole of their route until
  mid-Atlantic, there would be no glimpses tonight of lights on the ground.
  Several thousand feet above, the lights of another aircraft, traveling
  in an opposite direction, flashed by and were gone.
  From his seat behind the other two pilots, Second Officer Cy Jordan
  reached forward, adjusting the throttle settings to compensate for Flight
  Two's increased altitude.
  Demerest waited until Jordan had finished, then protested to Anson
  Harris, "Capital punishment is a long way from abortion."
  "Not really," Harris said. "Not when you think about it. It all relates
  to respect for individual human life; to the way civilization's come, the
  way it's going. The strange thing is, you hear people argue for abolition
  of capital punishment, then for legalized abortion in the same breath.
  What they don't see is the anomaly of
             AIRPORT           333

 raising the value of human life on one hand, and lowering it on the
 other."
  Demerest remembered what he had said to Gwen this evening. He repeated
  it now. "An unborn child doesn't have life-not an individual life. It's
  a fetus; it isn't a person."
  "Let me ask you something," Harris said. "Did you ever see an aborted
  child? Afterward, I mean."
 "No."
  "I did once. A doctor I know showed it to me. It was in a glass jar, in
  formaldehyde; my friend kept it in a cupboard. I don't know where he got
  it, but he told me that if the baby had lived-not been aborted-it would
  have been a normal child, a boy. It was a fetus, all right, just the way
  you said, except it had been a human being, too. It was all there;
  everything perfectly formed; a good-looking face, hands, feet, toes, even
  a little penis. You know what I felt when I saw it? I felt ashamed; I
  wondered where the hell was 1; where were all other decent-minded,
  sensitive people when this kid, who couldn't defend himself, was being
  murdered? Because that's what happened; even though, most times, we're
  afraid to use the word."
  "Hell! I'm not saying a baby should be taken out when it's that far
  along."
  "You know something?" Harris said. "Eight weeks after conception,
  everything's present in a fetus that's in a full-term baby. In the third
  month the fetus looks like a baby. So where do you draw the line?"
  Demerest grumbled, "You should have been a lawyer, not a pilot." Just the
  same, he found himself wondering how far Gwen was along, then reasoned:
  if she conceived in San Francisco, as she assured him, it must be eight
  or nine weeks ago. Therefore, assuming Harris's statements to be true,
  there was almost a shaped baby now.
  It was time for another report to air route control. Vernon Demerest made
  it. They were at thirty-two thousand feet, near the top of their climb,
  and in a moment or two would cross the Canadian border and be over
  southern Ontario. Detroit and Windsor, the twin
 334          AIRPORT

 cities straddling the border, were ordinarily a bright splash of light,
 visible for miles ahead. Tonight there was only darkness, the cities
 shrouded and somewhere down below to starboard. Dernerest remembered that
 Detroit Metropolitan Airport had closed shortly before their own takeoff.
 Both cities, by now, would be taking the full brunt of the storm, which
 was moving east.
  Back in the passenger cabins, Demerest knew, Gwen Meighen and the other
  stewardesses would be serving a second round of drinks and, in first
  class, hot hors d'oeuvres on exclusive Rosenthal china.
  "I warned you I had strong feelings," Anson Harris said. "You don't need
  a religion, to believe in human ethics."
  Demerest growled, "Or to have screwbaU ideas. Anyway, people who think
  like you are on the losing side. The trend is to make abortion easier;
  eventuaffy, maybe, wide open and legal."
  "If it happens," Harris said, "we'll be a backward step nearer the
  Auschwitz ovens."
  "Nuts!" Demerest glanced up from the flight log, where he was recording
  their position, just reported. His irritability, seldom far below the
  surface, was beginning to show. "There are plenty of good arguments in
  favor of easy abortion-unwanted children who'll be born. to poverty and
  never get a chance; then the special cases -rape, incest, the mother's
  health."
  "There are always special cases. It's like saying, ,okay, we'll permit
  just a little murder, providing you make out a convincing argument."'
  Harris shook his head, dissenting. "Then you talked about unwanted
  children. Well, they can be stopped by birth control. Nowadays everyone
  gets that opportunity, at every economic level. But if we slip up on
  that, and a human life starts growing, that's a new human being, and
  we've no moral right to condemn it to death. As to what we're born into,
  that's a chance we aH take without knowing it; but once we have life,
  good or bad, we're entitled to keep it, and not many, however bad it is,
  would give it up. The answer to poverty isn't to kill unborn babies, but
  to improve society."
             AIRPORT           335

  Harris considered, then went on, "As to economics, there are economic
  arguments for everything. It makes economic logic to kill mental
  deficients and mongoloids right after birth; to practice euthanasia on
  the terminally ill; to weed out old and useless people, the way they do
  in Africa, by leaving them in the jungle for hyenas to eat. But we don't
  do it because we value human life and dignity. What I'm saying, Vernon,
  is that if we plan to progress we ought to value them a little more."
  The alti-meters-one in front of each pilot-touched thirty-three thousand
  feet. They were at the top of their climb. Anson Harris eased the
  aircraft into level flight while Second Officer Jordan reached forward
  again to adjust the throttles.
  Demerest said sourly to Harris, "Your trouble is cobwebs in the brain."
  He realized he had started the discussion; now, angrily, he wished he
  hadn't. To end the subject, he reached for the stewardess call button.
  "Let's get some hors d'oeuvres before the first class passengers wolf
  them all."
 Harris nodded. "Good idea."
  A minute or two later, in response to the telephoned order, Gwen Meighen
  brought three plates of aromatic hors d'oeuvres, and coffee. On Trans
  America, as on most airlines, captains got the fastest service.
  "Thanks, Gwen," Vernon Demerest said; then, as she leaned forward to
  serve Anson Harris, his eyes confirmed what he already knew. Gwen's waist
  was as slim as ever, no sign of anything yet; nor would there be, no
  matter what was going on inside. The heck with Harris and his old woman's
  arguments! Of course Gwen would haye an abortion-just as soon as they got
  back.

  Some sixty feet aft of the flight deck, in the tourist cabin, Mrs. Ada
  Quonsett was engaged in spirited conversation with the passenger on her
  right, whom she had discovered was an amiable, middle-aged oboe player
  from the Chicago Symphony. "What a wonderful thing to be a musician, and
  so creative. My late husband loved classical music. He fiddled a little
  himself, though not professionally, of course."
 336          AIRPORT

  Mrs. Quonsett was feeling warmed by a Dry Sack sherry for which her
  oboist friend had paid, and he had just inquired if she would like
  another. Mrs. Quonsett beamed, "Well, it's exceedingly kind of you, and
  perhaps I shouldn't, but I really think I will."
  The passenger on her left-the man with the little sandy mustache and
  scrawny neck-had been less communicative; in fact, disappointing. Mrs.
  Quonsett's several attempts at conversation had been rebuffed by mon-
  osyllabic answers, barely audible, while the man sat, mostly
  expressionless, still clasping his attach6 case on his knees.
  For a while, when they had all ordered drinks, Mrs. Quonsett wondered if
  the left-seat passenger might unbend. But he hadn't. He accepted Scotch
  from the stewardess, paid for it with a lot of small change that he had
  to count out, then tossed the drink down almost in a gulp. Her own sherry
  mellowed Mrs. Quonsett immediately, so that she thought: Poor man,
  perhaps he has problems, and I shouldn't bother him.
  She noticed, however, that the scrawny-necked man came suddenly alert
  when the captain made his announcement, soon after takeoff, about their
  speed, course, time of flight and all those other things which Mrs.
  Quonsett rarely bothered listening to. The man on her left, though,
  scribbled notes on the back of an envelope and afterward got out one of
  those Chart Your Own Position maps, which the airline supplied, spreading
  it on top of his attach6 case. He was studying the map now, and making
  pencil marks, in between glances at his watch. It all seemed rather silly
  and childish to Mrs. Quonsett, who was quite sure that there was a
  navigator up front, taking care of where the airplane ought to be, and
  when.
  Mrs. Quonsett then returned her attention to the oboist who was
  explaining that not until recently, when he had been in a public seat
  during a Bruckner symphony performance, had he realized that at a moment
  when his section of the orchestra was going "pom-tiddey-pom-pom," the
  cellos were sounding "ah-diddley-
               AIRPORT           337

 ah-dah." He mouthed both passages in tune to illustrate his point.
  "Really! How remarkably interesting; I'd never thought of that," Mrs.
  Quonsett exclaimed. "My late husband would have so enjoyed meeting you,
  though of course you are very much younger."
  She was now well into the second sherry and enjoying herself thoroughly.
  She thought: she had chosen such a nice flight; such a fine airplane and
  crew, the stewardesses polite and helpful, and with delightful passengers,
  except for the man on her left, who didn't really matter. Soon, dinner
  would be served and later, she had learned, there was to be a movie with
  Michael Caine, one of her favorite stars. What more could anyone possibly
  ask?

  Mrs. Quansett had been wrong in assuming that there was a navigator up
  front on the flight deck. There wasn't. Trans America, like most major
  airlines, no longer carried navigators, even on overseas flights, because
  of the multitude of radar and radio systems available on modem jet
  aircraft. The pilots, aided by constant air route control surveillance, did
  what little navigation was needed.
  However, had there been an old-time air navigator aboard Flight Two, his
  charted position of the aircraft would have been remarkably similar to that
  which D. 0. Guerrero had achieved by rough-and-ready reckoning. Guerrero
  had estimated several minutes earlier that they were close to Detroit; the
  estimate was right. He knew, because the captain had said so in his
  announcement to passengers, that their subsequent course would take them
  over Montreal; Fredericton, New Brunswick; Cape Ray; and later St. John's,
  Newfoundland. The captain had even been helpful enough to include the
  aircraft's ground speed as well as airspeed, making Guerrero's further
  calculations just as accurate.
  The east coast of Newfoundland, D. 0. Guerrero calculated, would be passed
  over in two-and-a-half hours from the present time. However, before then,
  the captain would probably make another position an-
   338          AIRPORT

 nouncement, so the estimate could be revised if necessary. After that, as
 already planned, Guerrero would wait a further hour to ensure that the
 flight was well over the Atlantic Ocean before pulling the cord on his
 case and exploding the dynamite inside. At this moment, in anticipation,
 his fingers clasping the attach6 case tensed.
  Now that the time of culmination was so close, he wanted it to come
  quickly. Perhaps, after all, he thought, he would not wait the full time.
  Once they had left Newfoundland, really any time would do.
  The shot of whisky had relaxed him. Although most of his earlier tension'
  had disappeared on coming aboard, it had built up again soon after
  takeoff, particularly when the irritating old cat in the next seat had
  tried to start a conversation. D. 0. Guerrero wanted no conversation,
  either now or later; in fact, no more communication with anyone else in
  this life. All that he wanted was to sit and dream-of three hundred
  thousand dollars, a larger sum than he had ever possessed at one time
  before, and which would be coming to Inez and the two children, he
  presumed, in a matter of days.
  Right now he could have used another whisky, but had no money left to pay
  for it. After his unexpectedly large insurance purchase, there had been
  barely enough small change for the single drink; so he would have to do
  without.
  As he had earlier, he closed his eyes. This time he was thinking of the
  effect on Inez and the children when they heard about the money. They
  ought to care about him for what he was doing, even though they wouldn't
  know the whole of it-that he was sacrificing himself, giving his own life
  for them. But perhaps they might guess a little. If they did, he hoped
  they would be appreciative, although he wondered about that, knowing from
  experience that people could be surprisingly perverse in reactions to
  what was done on their behalf.
  The strange thing was: In all his thoughts about Inez and the children,
  he couldn't quite visualize their faces. It seemed almost as though he
  were thinking about people whom he had never really known.
              AIRPORT          339

  He compromised by conjuring up visions of dollar signs, followed by
  threes, and endless zeros. After a while he must have dropped off to
  sleep because, when he opened his eyes a quick glance at his watch showed
  that it was twenty minutes later, and a stewardess was leaning over from
  the aisle. The stewardess-an attractive brunette who spoke with an
  English accent-was asking, "Are you ready for dinner, sir? If so, perhaps
  you'd like me to take your case."

                4

 Almost from their initial moment of meeting, Mel Bakersfeld had formed an
 instinctive dislike of the lawyer, Elliott Freemantle, who was leading the
 delegation of Meadowood residents. Now, ten minutes or so after the
 delegation filed into Mel's office, the dislike was sharpening to
 downright loathing.
  It seemed as if the lawyer was deliberately being as obnoxious as
  possible. Even before the discussion opened, there had been Freemantle's
  unpleasant remark about not wanting "a lot of doubletalk," which Mel
  parried mildly, though resenting it. Since then, every rejoinder of Mel's
  had been greeted with equal rudeness and skepticism. Mel's instinct
  cautioned him that Freemantle was deliberately baiting him, hoping that
  Mel would lose his temper and make intemperate statements, with the press
  recording them. If it was the lawyer's strategy, Mel had no intention of
  abetting it. With some difficulty, he continued to keep his own manner
  reasonable and polite.
  Freemantle had protested what he termed, "the callous indifference of
  this airport's management to the health and well-being of my clients, the
  good citizen families of Meadowood."
 340          AIRPORT

  Mel replied quietly that neither the airport nor the airlines using it
  had been callous or indifferent. "On the contrary, we have recognized
  that a genuine problem about noise exists, and have done our best to deal
  with it."
  " Then your best, sir, is a miserable, weak effort! And you've done
  what?" Lawyer Freemantle declared, "So far as my clients and I can
  see-and hear-you've done no more than make empty promises which amount
  to nothing. It's perfectly evident-and the reason we intend to proceed
  to law-is that no one around here really gives a damn."
  The accusation was untrue, Mel countered. There had been a planned
  program of avoiding takeoffs on runway two five-which pointed directly
  at Meadowood -whenever an alternate runway could be used. Thus, two five
  was used mostly for landings only, creating little noise for Meadowood,
  even though entailing a loss in operating efficiency for the airport. In
  addition, pilots of all airlines had instructions to use noise abatement
  procedures after any takeoff in the general direction of Meadowood, on
  whatever runway, including turns away from Meadowood immediately after
  leaving the ground. Air traffic control had cooperated in all objectives.
  Mel added, "What you should realize, Mr. Freemantle, is that this is by
  no means the first meeting we have had with local residents. We've
  discussed our mutual problems many times."
  Elliott Freemantle snapped, "Perhaps At the other times there was not
  enough plain speaking."
  "Whether that's true or not, you seem to be making up for it now."
  "We intend to make up for a good deal-of lost time, wasted effort and bad
  faith, the latter not on my clients' part .
  Mel decided not to respond. There was nothing to be gained, for either
  side, by this kind of harangue-except, perhaps, publicity for Elliott
  Freemantle. Mel observed that the reporters' pencils were racing; one
  thing which the lawyer clearly understood was what made lively copy for
  the press.
              AIRPORT          341

  As soon as he decently could, Mel resolved, he would cut this session
  short. He was acutely conscious of Cindy, still seated where she had been
  when the delegation came in, though now appearing bored, which was
  characteristic of Cindy whenever anything came up involving airport
  affairs. 'nis time, however, Mel sympathized with her. In view of the
  seriousness of what they had been discussing, he was finding this whole
  Meadowood business an intrusion himself.
  In Mel's mind, too, was his recurring concern for Keith. He wondered how
  things were with his brother, over in air traffic control. Should he have
  insisted that Keith quit work for tonight, and pursued their discussion
  which-until the tower watch chief's intervention cut it off-had seemed
  to be getting somewhere? Even now, perhaps, it was not too late ... But
  then there was Cindy, who certainly had a right to be considered ahead
  of Keith; and now this waspish lawyer, Freemantle, still ranting on ...
  "Since you chose to mention the so-called noise abatement procedures,"
  Elliott Freemantle inquired sarcastically, "may I ask what happened to
  them tonight?"
  Mel sighed. "We've had a storm for three days." His glance took in the
  others in the delegation. "I'm sure you're all aware of it. It's created
  emergency situations." He explained the blockage of runway three zero,
  the temporary need for takeoffs on runway two five, with the inevitable
  effect on Meadowood.
  "That's all very well," one of the other men said. He was a heavy-jowled,
  balding man whom Mel had met at other discussions about airport noise.
  "We know about the storm, Mr. Bakersfeld. But if you've living directly
  underneath, knowing why airplanes are coming over doesn't make anyone
  feel better, storm or not. By the way, my name is Floyd Zanetta. I was
  chairman of the meeting . . . "
  Elliott Freernantle cut in smoothly. "If you'll excuse me, there's
  another point before we go on." Obviously the lawyer had no intention of
  relinquishing control of the delegation, even briefly. He addressed Mel,
  with a sideways glance at the press. "It isn't solely noise that's
 342          AIRPORT

 filling homes and ears of Meadowood, though that's bad enough-shattering
 nerves, destroying health, depriving children of their needed sleep. But
 there is a physical invasion . . ."
  This time Mel interrupted. "Are you seriously suggesting that as an
  alternative to what's happened tonight, the airport should close down?"
  "Not only am I suggesting that you do it; we may compel you. A moment ago
  I spoke of a physical invasion. It is that which I will prove, before the
  courts, on behalf of my clients. And we will win!"
  The other members of the delegation, including Floyd Zanetta, gave
  approving nods.
  While waiting for his last words to sink home, Elliott Freemantle
  deliberated. He supposed he had gone almost far enough. It was
  disappointing that the airport general manager hadn't blown a fuse, as
  Freernantle had been carefully goading him to do. The technique was one
  which he had used before, frequently with success, and it was a good
  technique because people who lost their tempers invariably came off worse
  in press reports, which wag what Freemantle was mainly concerned about.
  But Bakersfeld, though clearly annoyed, had been too smart to fall for
  that ploy. Well, never mind, Elliott Freemantle thought; he had been
  successful just the same. He, too, had seen the reporters industriously
  getting his words down-words which (with the sneer and hectoring tone
  removed) would read well in print; even better, he believed, than his
  earlier speech at the Meadowood meeting.
  Of course, Freemantle realized, this whole proceeding was just an
  exercise in semantics. Nothing would come of it. Even if the airport
  manager, Bakersfeld, could be persuaded to their point of view-a highly
  unlikely happening-there was little or nothing he could do about it. The
  airport was a fact of life and nothing would alter the reality of it
  being where and how it was. No, the value of being here at all tonight
  was partly in gaining public attention, but principally (from Lawyer
  Freemantle's viewpoint) to convince the Meadowood populace that they had
  a stalwart champion, so that those
              AIRPORT          343

 legal retainer forms (as well as checks) would keep on flowing into the
 offices of Freemantle and Sye.
  It was a pity, Freemantle thought, that the remainder of the crowd from
  Meadowood, who were waiting downstairs, could not have heard him up here,
  dishing out the rough stuff---on their behalf-to Bakersfeld. But they
  would read about it in tomorrow's papers; also, Elliott Freemantle was
  not at all convinced that what was happening here and now would be the
  last Meadowood item on tonight's airport agenda. He had already promised
  the TV crews, who were waiting down below because they couldn't make it
  in here with their equipment, a statement when this present session was
  over. He had hopes that by now-because he had suggested it -the TV
  cameras would be set up in the main terminal concourse, and eveL though
  that Negro police lieutenant had forbidden any demonstration there,
  Freemantle had an idea that the TV session, astutely managed, might well
  develop into one.
  Elliott Freemantle's statement of a moment ago had concerned legal
  action-the action which, he had assured Meadowood residents earlier this
  evening, would be his principal activity on their behalf. "My business
  is law," he had told them. "Law and nothing else." It was not true, of
  course; but then, Elliott Freemantle's policies were apt to back and fill
  as expediency demanded-
  "What legal action you take," Mel Bakersfeld pointed out, "is naturally
  your own affair. All the same, I would remind you that the courts have
  upheld the rights of airports to operate, despite adjoining communities,
  as a matter of public convenience and necessity."
  Freemantle's eyebrows shot up. "I didn't realize that you are a lawyer
  too."
  "I'm not a lawyer. I'm also quite sure you're aware of it.11
  "Well, for a moment I was beginning to wonder." Elliott Freemantle
  smirked. "Because I am, you see, and with some experience in these
  matters. Furthermore, I assure you that there are legal precedents in my
  clients' favor." As he had at the meeting earlier, he rattled off the
  impressive-sounding list of cases-U.S. v.
 344          AIRPORT

 Causby, Griggs v. County of Allegheny, Thornburg v. Port of Portland, Martin
 v. Port of Seattle.
  Mel was amused, though he didn't show it. The cases were familiar to him.
  He also knew of others, which had produced drastically different judgments,
  and which Elliott Freemantle was either unaware of or had cagily avoided
  mentioning. Mel suspected the latter, but had no intention of getting into
  a legal debate. The place for that, if and when it happened, was in court.
  However, Mel saw no reason why the lawyer-whom he now disliked even more
  intensely-should have everything his own way. Speaking to the delegation
  generally, Mel explained his reason for avoiding legal issues, but added,
  "Since we are all here, there are some things I would like to say to you on
  the subject of airports and noise generally."
 Cindy, he observed, was yawning.
  Freemantle responded instantly. "I doubt if that will be necessary. The
  next step so far as we are concerned. . ."
  "Oh!" For the first time Mel dispensed with mildness, and bore down
  heavily. "Am I to understand that after I've listened patiently to you, you
  and your group are not prepared to extend the same courtesy?"
  The delegate, Zanetta, who had spoken before, glanced at the others. "I do
  think we ought . . ."
 Mel said sharply, "Let Mr. Freemantle answer."
  "There's really no need"-the lawyer smiled suavely -"for anyone to raise
  their voice, or be discourteous."
  "In that case, why have you been doing both those things ever since you
  came in?"
 "I'm not aware . . ."
 "Well, I am aware."
 "Aren't you losing your temper, Mr. Bakersfeld?"
  "No," Mel smiled. "I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm not." He was
  conscious of having seized an advantage, catching the lawyer by surprise.
  Now he went on, "You've had a good deal to say, Mr. Freemantle, and not
  much of it politely. But there are a few things I'd like to get on the
  record, too. Also, I'm sure the press will be interested in both sides even
  if no one else is."
             AIRPORT           345

  "Oh, we're interested all right. It's just that we've heard all the
  wishy-washy excuses already." As usual, Elliott Freemantle was recovering
  fast. But he admitted to himself that he bad been lulled by Bakersfeld's
  earlier mild manner, so that the sharp counterattack caught him unawares.
  He realized that the airport general manager was more astute than he
  appeared.
  "I didn't say anything about excuses," Mel pointed out. "I suggested a
  review of airport noise situations generally."
  Freemantle shrugged. The last thing he wanted was to open up some new
  approach which might be newsworthy and, therefore, divert attention from
  himself. At the moment, though, he didn't see how he could prevent it.
  " Ladies and gentlemen," Mel began, "when you first came here tonight
  something was said about plain, blunt speaking on both sides. Mr.
  Freemantle has had his turn at that; now I will be equally candid."
  Mel sensed he had the full attention of the two women and four men in the
  delegation; also of the press. Even Cindy was watching him covertly. He
  continued to speak quietly.
  "All of you know, or should, the measures which we have taken at Lincoln
  International Airport to make life easier, more bearable, from the point
  of view of aircraft noise, for those who live in the airport vicinity.
  Some of these measures have been mentioned already, and there are others,
  such as using remote airport areas for the testing of engines, and even
  then during proscribed hours only."
  Elliott Freemantle, already fidgeting, cut in. "But you've admitted that
  these so-called systems fail to work."
  Mel snapped back, "I admitted nothing of the kind. Most of the time they
  do work-as well as any compromise can. Tonight I've admitted that they
  are not working because of exceptional circumstances, and frankly if I
  were a pilot, taking off in weather like this, I'd be reluctant to reduce
  power right after takeoff, and
 346          AIRPORT

 make a climbing turn too. Furthermore, this kind of condition is bound to
 recur from time to time."
 "Most of the time!"
  "No, sirl And please allow me to finish!" Without pausing, Mel went on,
  "The fact is: airports-here and elsewhere--have come close to doing as much
  as they can in the way of noise reduction. You may not like hearing this,
  and not everyone in this business admits it, but the truth is: there isn't
  a lot more that anyone can do. You simply cannot tiptoe a three hundred
  thousand pound piece of high-powered machinery into any place. So when you
  do bring a big jet airplane in-or take it out-inevitably it shakes hell out
  of a few people who are nearby." There were several quick smiles, though
  not from Elliott Freemantle, who was scowling. Mel added, "So if we need
  airports-and obviously we do -somebody, somewhere has to put up with some
  noise, or move away."
  It was Mel's turn to see the reporters' pencils racing with his words.
  "It's true," Mel continued, "that aircraft manufacturers are working on
  noise reduction devices, butagain to be honest with yo-few people in the
  aviation industry take them seriousiy, and certainly they do not represent
  a major effort like, for example, development of a new aircraft. At best,
  they'll be palliatives. If you don't believe me, let me remind you that
  even though trucks have been in use for many years more than airplanes, no
  one has yet invented a really effective truck muffler.
  "Another thing to bear in mind is that by the time one type of jet engine
  gets quieted a little-if it ever does-there'll be new, more powerful
  engines in use which, even with suppressors fitted, will be noisier than
  the first engine was to begin with. As I said," Mel added, "I am being
  absolutely frank."
  One of the women in the delegation murmured gloomily, "You sure are."
  "Which brings me," Mel said, "to the question of the future. There are new
  breeds of aircraft coming-another family of jets after the Boeing 747s,
  including
             AIRPORT           347

 behemoths like the Lockheed 500, which will come into use soon; then
 shortly afterward, the supersonic transports-the Concord6, and those to
 follow. The Lockheed 500 and its kind will be subsonic-that is, they'll
 operate at less than the speed of sound, and will give us the kind of
 noise we have now, only more of it. The supersonics will have a mighty
 engine noise too, plus a sonic boom as they breach the sound barrier,
 which is going to he more of a problem than any other noise we've had so
 far.
  "You may have heard or read-as I have--optimistic reports that the sonic
  booms will occur high, far from cities and -tirports, and that the effect
  on thi ground will be minor. Don't believe it! We're in for trouble, all
  of us -people !n homes, like you; people like me, who run airports;
  airlines, who'll have a billion dollars invested in equipment which they
  must use continuously, or go bankrupt. Believe me, the time is coming
  when we'll wish we had the simplicity of the kind of noise we're talking
  about tonight."
  "So what are you telling my clients?" Elliott Freemantle inquired
  sarcastically. "To go jump in the lunatic asylum now rather than wait
  until you and your behemoths drive them there?"
  "No," Mel said firmly, "I'm not telling them that. I'm merely saying
  candidly-the way you asked me to-that I haven't any simple answers; nor
  will I make you promises that the airport cannot keep. Also I'm saving
  that in my opinion, airport noise is going to bec~me greater, nw less.
  However, I'd like to remind all of you that this problem isn't new. It's
  existed since trains started running, and since trucks, buses, and
  automobiles joined them; there was the same problem when freeways were
  built through residential areas; and when airports were established, and
  grew. All these things are for the public good--or so we believe-yet all
  of them create noisc and, despite all kinds of efforts, they've continued
  t,--). The thing is: trucks, trains, freeways, airplanes, and the rest
  are here. They're part of the way we live, and unless we change our way
  of life, then their noise is something we have to live with too."
 348          AIRPORT

  "In other words, my clients should abandon any idea of serenity,
  uninterrupted sleep, privacy and quietness for the remainder of their
  natural lives?"
  "No," Mel said. "I think, in the end, they'll have to move. I'm not
  speaking officially, of course, but I'm convinced that eventually this
  airport and others will be obliged to make multibillion-dollar purchases
  of residential areas surrounding them. A good many of the areas can
  become industrial zones where noise won't matter. And of course, there
  would be reasonable compensation to those who owned homes and were forced
  to leave them."
  Elliott Freemantle rose and motioned others in the delegation to do the
  same.
  "That last remark," he informed Mel, "is the one sensible thing I've
  heard this evening. However, the compensation may start sooner than you
  think, and also be larger." Freemantle nodded curtly. "You will be
  hearing from us. We shall see you in court."
 He went out, the others following.
  Through the door to the anteroom Mel heard one of the two women delegates
  exclaim, "You were magnificent, Mr. Freemantle. I'm going to tell
  everyone so."
  "Well, thank you. Thank you very . The voices faded.
 Mel went to the door, intending to close it.
  "I'm sorry about that," he said to Cindy. Now that the two of them were
  alone again, he was not sure what else they had to say to each other, if
  anything.
  Cindy said icily, "It's par for the course. You should have married an
  airport."
  At the doorway, Mel noticed that one of the men reporters had returned
  to the anteroom. It was Tomlinson of the Tribune.
 "Mr. Bakersfeld, could I see you for a moment?"
 Mel said wearily, "What is it?"
  "I got the impression you weren't too smitten with Mr. Freemantle."
 "Is this for quotation?"
 "No, sir."
 "Then your impression was right."
              AIRPORT          349

  "I thought you'd be interested in this," the reporter said.
  "This" was one of the legal retainer forms which Elliott Freemantle had
  distributed at the Meadowood community meeting.
  As Mel read the form, he asked, "Where did you get it?"
 The reporter explained.
 "How many people were at the meeting?"
 "I counted. Roughly six hundred."
 "And how many of these forms were signed?"
  "I can't be sure of that, Mr. Bakersfeld. My guess would be a hundred and
  fifty were signed and tumed in. Then there were other people who said
  they'd send theirs by mail."
  Mel thought grimly: now be could understand Elliott Freemantle's
  histrionics; also why and whom the lawyer was trying to impress.
  "I guess you're doing the same arithmetic I did," the reporter, Tomlinson,
  said.
 Mel nodded. "It adds up to a tidy little sum."
 "Sure does. I wouldn't mind a piece of it myself."
  "Maybe we're both in the wrong business. Did you cover the Meadowood
  meeting too?"
 "Yes. "
  "Didn't anyone over there point out that the total legal fee was likely to
  be at least fifteen thousand dollars?"
  Tomlinson shook his head. "Either no one thought of it, or they didn't
  care. Besides, Freemantle has quite a personality; hypnotic, I guess you'd
  call it. He had 'em spellbound, like he was Billy Graham."
  Mel banded back the printed retainer form. "Will you put this in your
  story?"
  "I'll put it in, but don't be surprised if the city desk kills it. They're
  always wary about professional legal stuff. Besides, I guess if you come
  right down to it, there's nothing really wrong."
  "No," Mel said, "it may be unethical, and I imagine the bar association
  wouldn't like it. But it isn't illegal. What the Meadowood folk should have
  done, of course,
 350          AIRPORT

 was get together and retain a lawyer as a group. But if people are
 gullible, and want to make lawyers rich, I guess it's their own affair."
 Tomlinson grinned. "May I quote some of that?"
  "You just got through telling me your paper wouldn't print it. Besides,
  this is off the record. Remember?"
 "Okay. 11
  If it would have done any good, Mel thought, he would have sounded off,
  and taken a chance on being quoted or not. But he knew it wouldn't do any
  good. He also knew that all over the country, ambulance chasing lawyers
  like Elliott Freemantle were busily signing up groups of people, then
  harassing airports, airlines, and -in some cases-pilots.
  It was not the harassing which Mel objected to; that, and legal recourse,
  were everyone's privilege. It was simply that in many instances the
  homeowner clients were being misled, buoyed up with false hopes, and
  quoted an impressive-sounding, but one-sided selection of legal
  precedents such as Elliott Freemantle had used tonight. As a result, a
  spate of legal actions-costly and time-coasuming-was being launched, most
  of which were foredoomed to fail, and from which only the lawyers
  involved would emerge as beneficiaries.
  Mel wished that he had known earlier what Tomlinson had just told him.
  In that case he would have loaded his remarks to the delegation, so as
  to convey a warning about Elliott Freemantle, and what the Meadowood
  residents were getting into. Now it was too late.
  "Mr. Bakersfeld," the Tribune reporter said, "there are some other things
  I'd like to ask you-about the airport generally. If you could spare a few
  minutes . . ."
  "Any other time I'll be glad to." Mel raised his hands in a helpless
  gesture. "Right now there are fifteen things happening at once."
  The reporter nodded. "I understand. Anyway, I'll be around for a while.
  I hear Freemantle's bunch are cooking up something down below. So if
  there's a chance later. . ."
  "I'll do my best," Mel said, though he bad no intention of being
  available any more tonight. He respected
              AIRPORT          351

 Tomlinson's wish to dig below the surface of any story which he covered;
 just the same, Mel had seen enough of delegations and reporters for one
 evening.
  As to whatever else it was that Freemantle and the Meadowood people were
  "cooking up down below," he would leave any worrying about that, Mel
  decided, to Lieutenant Ordway and his policemen.

               5

 When Mel turned, after closing the door of his office as the Tribune
 reporter left, Cindy was standing, pulling on her gloves. She remarked
 acidly, "Fifteen things happening, I betieve you said. Whatever the other
 fourteen are, I'm sure they'll all take priority over me."
  "That was a figure of speech," Mel protested, "as you know perfectly well.
  I already said I'm sorry. I didn't know this was going to happen-at least,
  not all at once."
  "But you love it, don't you? All of it. Much more than me, home, the
  children, a decent social life."
  "Ah!" Mel said. "I wondered when you'd get to that." He stopped. "Oh, hell!
  Why are we fighting again? We settled everything, didn't we? There's no
  need to fight any more."
  "No," Cindy said. She was suddenly subdued. "No, I suppose not."
 There was an uncertain silence. Mel broke it first.
  "Look, getting a divorce is a pretty big thing for both of us; for Roberta
  and Libby, too. If you've any doubts
  11

 ;1 Haven't we been over that already?"
  "Yes; but if you want to, we'll go over it fifty times again."
 "I don't want to." Cindy shook her head decisively.
 352          AIRPORT

 "I haven't any doubts. Nor have you, not really. Have you?"
 "No," Mel said. "I'm afraid I haven't."
  Cindy started to say something, then stopped. She had been going to tell
  Mel about Lionel Urquhart, but decided against it. There was plenty of time
  for Mel to find that out for himself, later. As to Derek Eden, whom Cindy
  had been thinking about during most of the time that the Meadowood
  delegation had been in the office, she had no intention of disclosing his
  existence to Mel or Lionel.
  There was a knock-light but definite-on the anteroom door.
  "Oh, God!" Cindy muttered, "Isn't there any privacy?"
 Mel called out irritably, "Who is it?"
  The door opened. "Just me," Tanya Livingston said. "Mel, I need some advice
  . . ." As she saw Cindy, she stopped abruptly. "Excuse me. I thought you
  were alone."
 "He will be," Cindy said. "In hardly any time at all."
  "Please, no!" Tanya flushed. "I can come back, Mrs. Bakersfeld. I didn't
  know I was disturbing you."
  Cindy's eyes flicked over Tanya, stiff in Trans America uniform.
  "It's probably time we were disturbed," Cindy said. "After all, it's been
  a good three minutes since the last people left, and that's longer than we
  usually have together." She swung toward Mel. "Isn't it?"
 He shook his head, without answering.
  "By the way." Cindy turned back to Tanya. "I'm curious about one thing. How
  you were so sure who I am.11
  Momentarily, Tanya had lost her usual poise. Recovering it, she gave a
  small smile. "I suppose I guessed,"
  Cindy's eyebrows went up. "Am I supposed to do the same?" She glanced at
  Mel.
 "No," he said. He introduced them.
  Mel was aware of Cindy appraising Tanya Livingston. He had not the
  slightest doubt that his wife was already forming some conclusion about
  Tanya and him-
               AIRPORT           353

 self; Mel had long ago learned that Cindy's instincts about rnen-women
 relationships were uncannily accurate. Besides, he was sure that his own
 introduction of Tanya had betrayed something. Husbands and wives were too
 familiar with each other's nuances of speech for that not to happen. It
 would not even surprise him if Cindy guessed about his own and Tanya's
 rendezvous for later tonight, though perhaps, he reflected, that was
 carrying imagination too far.
  Well, whatever Cindy knew or guessed, he supposed it didn't really
  matter. After all, she was the one who had asked for a divorce, so why
  should she object to someone else in Mel's life, however much or little
  Tanya meant, and he wasn't sure of that himself? But then, Mel reminded
  himself, that was a logical way of thinking. Women--including Cindy, and
  probably Tanya-were seldom logical.
 The last thought proved right.
  "How nice for you," Cindy told him with pseudo sweetness, "that it isn't
  just dull old delegations who come to you with problems." She eyed Tanya.
  "You did say you have a problem?"
  Tanya returned the inspection levelly. "I said I wanted some advice."
  "Oh, really! What kind of advice? Was it business, personal? ... Or
  perhaps you've forgotten."
  "Cindy," Mel said sharply, "that's enough! You've no reason . . ."
  "No reason for what? And why is it enough?" His wife's voice was mocking;
  he had the impression that in a perverse way she was enjoying herself.
  "Aren't you always telling me I don't take enough interest in your
  problems? Now I'm all agog about your friend's problem ... that is, if
  there is one."
  Tanya said crisply, "It's about Flight Two." She added. "That's Trans
  America's flight to Rome, Mrs. Bakersfeld. It took off half an hour ago."
 Mel asked, "What about Flight Two?"
  "To tell the truth"-Tanya hesitated-"I'm not really sure."
 "Go ahead," Cindy said. "Think of something."
 354          AIRPORT

  Mel snapped, "Oh, shut up!" He addressed Tanya, "What is it?"
  Tanya glanced at Cindy, then told him of her conversation with Customs
  Inspector Standish. She described the man with the suspiciously held
  attach& case, whom Standish suspected of smuggling.
 "He went aboard Flight Two?"
 "Yes. 11

  "Then even if your man was smuggling," Mel pointed out, "it would be into
  Italy. The U.S. Customs people don't worry about that. They let other
  countries look out for themselves."
  "I know. That's the way our D.T.M. saw it." Tanya described the exchange
  between herself and the District Transportation Manager, ending with the
  latter's irritable but firm instruction, "Forget it!"
 Mel looked puzzled. "Then I don't see why . .
  "I told you I'm not sure, and maybe this is all silly. But I kept thinking
  about it, so I started checking."
 "Checking what?"
 Both of them had forgotten Cindy.
  "Inspector Standish," Tanya said, "told me that the man-the one with the
  attach6 case-was almost the last to board the flight. He must have been
  because I was at the gate, and I missed seeing an old woman . . ." She
  corrected herself. "That part doesn't matter. Anyway, a few minutes ago I
  got bold of the gate agent for Flight Two and we went over the manifest and
  tickets together. He couldn't remember the man with the case, but we
  narrowed it down to five names."
 "And then?"
  "Just on a hunch I called our check-in counters to see if anyone remembered
  anything about any of those five people. At the airport counters, nobody
  did. But downtown, one of the agents did remember the man-the one with the
  case. So I know his name; the description fits
 . everything."
  "I still don't see what's so extraordinary. He had to check in somewhere.
  So he checked in downtown."
 "The reason the agent remembered him," Tanya said,
              AIRPORT          355

 "is that lie didn't have any baggage, except the little case. Also, the
 agent said, he was extremely nervous."
  "Lots of people are nervous . . ." Abruptly Mel stopped. He frowned. "No
  baggage! For a flight to Rome! "
  "That's right. Except for the little bag the man was carrying, the one
  Inspector Standish noticed. The agent downtown called it a briefcase."
  "But nobody goes on that kind of journey without baggage. It doesn't make
  sense."
  "That's what I thought." Again Tanya hesitated. "It doesn't make sense
  unless
 "Unless what?"
  "Unless you happen to know already that the flight you're on will never get
  to where it's supposed to be going. If you knew that, you'd also know that
  you wouldn't need any baggage."
  "Tanya," Mel said softly, "what are you trying to say?"
  She answered uncomfortably, "I'm not sure; that's why I came to you. When
  I think about it, it seems silly and melodramatic, only. .
 11 Go on."
  "Well, supposing that man we've been talking about isn't smuggling at all;
  at least, in the way we've all assumed. Supposing the reason for him not
  having any luggage, for being nervous, for holding the case the way
  Inspector Standish noticed . . . suppose instead of having some sort of
  contraband in there . . . he has a bomb."
  Their eyes held each other's steadily. Mel's mind was
 speculatin ' a, assessing possibilities. To him, also, the
 idea which Tanya had just raised seemed ridiculous and
 remote. Yet . . . in the past, occasionally, such things
 had happened. The question was: How could you
 decide if this was another time? The more he thought
 about it, the more he realized that the entire episode of
 the man with the attach6 case could so easily be inno
 cent; in fact, probably was. If that proved true after a
 fuss had been created, whoever began the fuss would
 have made a fool of himself. It was human not to want
 356          AIRPORT

 to do that; yet, with the safety of an airplane and passengers involved,
 did making a fool of oneself matter? Obviously not. On the other hand,
 there ought to be a stronger reason for the drastic actions which a bomb
 scare would involve than merely a possibility, plus a hunch. Was there,
 Mel wondered, some way conceivably in which a stronger hint, even
 corroboration, might be found?
 Offhand, be couldn't think of one.
  But there was something he could check. It was a long shot, but all that
  was needed was a phone call. He supposed that seeing Vernon Dernerest
  tonight, with the reminder of the clash before the Board of Airport Com-
  missioners, had made him think of it.
  For the second time this evening, Mel consulted his pocket panic-list of
  telephone numbers. Then, using an internal airport telephone on his desk,
  he dialed the insurance vending booth in the main concourse. The girl
  clerk who answered was a long-time employee whom Melknew well.
  "Marj," he said, when he had identified himself, "have you written many
  policies tonight on the Trans America Flight Two?"
  "A few more than usual, Mr. Bakersfeld. But then we have on all flights;
  this kind of weather always does that. On Flight Two, I've had about a
  dozen, and I know Bunnie-that's the other girl on with me-has written
  some as well."
  "What I'd like you to do," Mel told her, "is read me all the names and
  policy amounts." As he sensed the girl hesitate, "If I have to, I'll call
  your district manager and get authority. But you know he'll give it to
  me, and I'd like you to take my word that this is important. Doing it
  this way, you can save me time."
  "All right, Mr. Bakersfeld; if you say it's okay. But it will take a few
  minutes to get the policies together."
 "I'll wait."
  Mel heard the telephone put down, the girl apologize to someone at the
  insurance counter for the interruption. There was a rustling of papers,
  then another girl's voice inquiring, "Is something wrong?"
              AIRPORT          357

  Covering the telephone mouthpiece, Mel asked Tanya, "What's that name you
  have-the man with the case?"
  She consulted a slip of paper. "Guerrero, or it may be Buerrero; we had it
  spelled both ways." She saw Mel start. "Initials D.O."
  Mel's hand still cupped the telephone. His mind was concentrating. The
  woman who had been brought to his office half an hour ago was named
  Guerrero; he remembered Lieutenant Ordway saying so. She was the one whom
  the airport police had found wandering in the terminal. According to Ned
  Ordway, the woman was distressed and crying; the police couldn't get any
  sense from her. Mel was going to try talking to her himself, but hadn't
  gotten around to it. He had seen the woman on the point of leaving the
  outer office as the Meadowood delegation came in. Of course, there might be
  no connection ...
  Through the telephone, Mel could still hear voices at the insurance booth
  and, in the background, the noise of the main terminal concourse.
  "Tanya," he said quietly, "about twenty minutes ago there was a woman in
  the outside office-middle-aged, shabbily dressed; she looked wet and
  draggle-tailed. I believe she left when some other people came in, but she
  might be stiff around. If she's anywhere outside, bring her in. In any
  case, if you find her, don't let her get away from you." Tanya looked
  puzzled. He added, "Her name is Mrs. Guerrero."
  As Tanya left the office, the girl clerk at the insurance booth came back
  on the line. "I have all those policies, Mr. Bakersfeld. Are you ready if
  I read the names?"
 "Yes, Marj. Go ahead."
  He listened carefully. As a name near the end occurred, he had a sudden
  sense of tension. For the first time his voice was urgent. "Tell me about
  that policy. Did you write it?"
  "No. That was one of Bunnie's. I'll let you speak to her."
  He listened to what the other girl had to say and asked two or three
  questions. Their exchange was brief.
 358          AIRPORT

 He broke the connection and was dialing another number as Tanya returned.
  Though her eyes asked questions which for the moment he ignored, she
  reported immediately, "There's no one on the mezzanine. There are still
  a million people down below, but you'd never pick anyone out. Should we
  page?"
  "We can try, though I don't have a lot of hope." On the basis of what he
  had learned, Mel thought, not much was getting through to the Guerrero
  woman, so it was unlikely that a p.a. announcement would do so now. Also,
  by this time she could have left the airport and be halfway to the city.
  He reproached himself for not having tried to talk with her, as he had
  intended, but there had been the other things: the delegation from
  Meadowood; his anxiety about his brother, Keith-Mel remembered that he
  had considered going back to the control tower . . . well, that would
  have to wait now ... then there had been Cindy. With a guilty start
  because he hadn't noticed before, he realized that Cindy was gone.
  He reached for the p.a. microphone on his desk and pushed it toward
  Tanya.
  There was an answer from the number he had dialed, which was airport
  police headquarters. Mel said crisply, "I want Lieutenant Ordway. Is he
  still in the terminal?"
  "Yes, sir." The police desk sergeant was familiar with Mel's voice.
  "Find him as quickly as you can; I'll bold. And by the way, what was the
  first name of a woman called Guerrero, whom one of your people picked up
  tonight? I think I know, but I want to make sure."
  "Just a minute, sir. I'll look." A moment later he said, "It's Inez; Inez
  Guerrero. And we've already called the lieutenant on his beeper box."
  Mel was aware that Lieutenant Ordway, like many others at the airport,
  carried a pocket radio receiver which gave a "beep" signal if he was
  required urgently. Somewhere, at this moment, Ordway was undoubtedly
  hastening to a phone.
 Mel gave brief instructions to Tanya, then pressed the
              AIRPORT          359

 "on" switch of the p.a. microphone, which overrode all others in the
 terminal. Through the open doors to the anteroom and mezzanine he heard an
 American Airlines flight departure announcement halt abruptly in mid-sen-
 tence. Only twice before, during the eight years of Mel's tenure as airport
 general manager, had the mike and override switch been used. The first
 occasion-branded in Mel's memory-had been to announce the death of President
 Kennedy; the second, a year later, was when a lost and crying child wandered
 directly into Mel's office. Usually there were regular procedures for
 handling lost children, but that time Mel had used the mike himself to
 locate the frantic parents.
  Now he nodded to Tanya to begin her announcement, remembering that he was
  not yet sure why they wanted the woman, Inez Guerrero, or even that-for
  certainthere was anything wrong at all. Yet instinct told him that there
  was; that something serious had happened, or was happening; and when you
  had a puzzle of that kind, the smart and urgent thing to do was gather all
  the pieces that you could, hoping that somehow, with help from other
  people, you could fit them together to make sense.
  "Attention please," Tanya was saying in her clear, unaffected voice, now
  audible in every comer of the terminal. "Will Mrs. Inez Guerrero, or
  Buerrero, please come immediately to the airport general manager's office
  on the administrative mezzanine of the main terminal building. Ask any
  airline or airport representative to direct you. I will repeat . . ."
  There was a click in Mel's telephone. Lieutenant Ordway came on the line.
  "We want that woman," Mel told him. "The one who was here-Guerrero. We're
  announcing. .
 "I know," Ordway said. "I can hear."
  "We need her urgently; I'll explain later. For now, take my word. . ."
 "I already have. When did you last see her?"
 "In my outer office. When she was with you."
 "Okay. Anything else?"
 "Only that this may be big. I suggest you drop every- 360          AIRPORT

 thing; use at] your men. And whether you find her or not, get up here
 soon."
 "Right." There was another click as Ordway hung up.
  Tanya had finished her announcement; she pushed the "off" button of the
  microphone. Outside, Met could hear another announcement begin,
  "Attention Mr. Lester Mainwaring. Will Mr. Mainwaring and all members of
  his party report immediately to the main terminal entrance?"
 "Lester Mainwaring" was an airport code name for policeman." Normally,
 such an announcement meant that the nearest policeman on duty was to go
 wherever the message designated. "All members of his party" meant every
 policeman in the terminal. Most airports had similar systems to alert
 their police without the public being made aware.
  Ordway was wasting no time. Undoubtedly he would brief his men about Inez
  Guerrero as they reported to the main entrance.
  "Call your D.T.M.," Mel instructed Tanya. "Ask him to come to this office
  as quickly as he can. Tell him it's important." Partly to himself, he
  added, "We'll start by getting everybody here."
  Tanya made the call, then reported, "He's on his way." Her voice betrayed
  nervousness.
  Met had gone to the office door. He closed it.
  " You still haven't told me," Tanya said, "what it was you found out."
 Mel chose his words carefully.
  "Your man Guerrero, the one with no luggage except the little attacb6
  case, and whom you think might have a bomb aboard Flight Two, took out
  a flight insurance policy just before takeoff for three hundred thousand
  dollars. ne beneficiary is Inez Guerrero. He paid for it with what looked
  like his last small change."
  "My God!" Tanya's face went white. She whispered, "Oh, dear God ... no!"
             AIRPORT           361

               6

 There were times-tonight was one-when Joe Patroni was grateful that he
 worked in the maintenance baitiwick of aviation, and not in sales.
  The thought occurred to him as he surveyed the busy activity of digging
  beneath, and around the mired A6reo-Mexican jet which continued to block
  runway three zero.
  As Patroni saw it, airline sales forces-in which category he lumped all
  front office staff and executivescomprised inflatable rubber people who
  connived against each other like fretful ~hfldren. On the other hand,
  Patroni was convinced that those in engineering and maintenance departments
  behaved like mature adults. Maintenance men (Joe was apt to argue), even
  when employed by competing airlines, worked closely and harmoniously,
  sharing their information, experience, and even secrets for the common
  good.
  As Joe Patroni sometimes confided privately to his friends, an example of
  this unofficial sharing was the pooling of information which came to
  maintenance men regularly through conferences held by individual airlines.
  Patroni's employers, like most major scheduled airlines, had daily
  telephone conferences-known as "briefings"-during which all regional
  headquarters, bases, and outfield stations were connected through a
  continent-wide closed-circuit hook-up. Directed by a head office
  vice-president, the briefings were, in fact, critiques and information
  exchanges on the way the airline had operated during the past twenty-four
  hours. Senior people throughout the company's system talked freely and
  frankly with one another. Operations and sales departments each had their
  own daily briefing; so did maintenance-the latter, in Patroni's opinion, by
  far the most important.
 362          AIRPORT

  During the maintenance sessions, in which Joe Patroni took part five days
  a week, stations reported one by one. Where delays in service-for
  mechanical reasons -had occurred the previous day, those in charge were
  required to account for them. Nobody bothered making excuses. As llatroni
  put it: "If you goofed, you say so." Accidents or failures of equipment,
  even minor, were reported; the objective, to pool knowledge and prevent
  recurrence. At next Monday's session, Patroni would report toniuht's
  experience with the A6reo-Mexican 707, and his success or failure,
  however it turned out. The daily discussions were strictly no-nonsense,
  largely because the maintenance men were tough cookies who knew they
  couldn't fool one another.
  After each official conference-and usually unknown to senior
  managements-unofficial ones began. Patroni and others would exchange
  telephone calls with cronies in maintenance departments of competing
  airlines. They would compare notes about one another's daily conferences,
  passing on what information seemed worth while. Rarely was any
  intelligence withheld.
  With more urgent matters-especially those affecting safety-word was
  passed from airline to airline in the same way, but without the day's
  delay. If Delta, for example, had a rotor blade faflure on a DC-9 in
  flight, maintenance departments of Eastern, TWA, Continental, and others
  using DC-9s, were told within hours; the information might help prevent
  similar failures on other aircraft. Later, photographs of the
  disassembled engine, and a technical report, would follow. If they
  wished, foremen and mechanics from other airlines could widen their
  knowledge by dropping over for a look-see at the failed part, and any
  engine damage.
  Those who, like Patroni, worked in this give-and-take milieu were fond
  of pointing out that if sales and administration departments of competing
  airlines bad occasion to consult, their people seldom went to one
  another's headquarters, but met on neutral ground. Maintenance men, in
  contrast, visited competitors' premises with the assurance of a common
  freemasonry. At other times, if one maintenance department was in
  trouble, others helped as they were able.
             AIRPORT           363

  This second kind of help had been sent, tonight, to Joe Patroni.
  In the hour and a half since work began in the latest attempt to move the
  stranded jet from alongside runway three zero, Patroni's complement of
  help had almost doubled. He had begun with the original small crew of
  A6reo-Mexican, supplemented by some of his own people from TWA. Now,
  digging steadily with the others, were ground crews from Braniff, Pan Am,
  American, and Eastern.
  As the various newcomers had arrived, in an assortment of airline
  vehicles, it became evident that news of Patroni's problem had spread
  quickly on the airport grapevine, and, without waiting to be asked, other
  maintenance departments had pitched in. It gave Joe Patroni a good,
  appreciative feeling.
  Despite the extra help, Patroni's estimate of an hour's preparatory work
  had already been exceeded. Digging of twin trenches, floored by heavy
  timbers, in front of the airliner's main landing gear had gone ahead
  steadily -though slowly because of the need for all the men working to
  seek shelter periodically, to warm themselves. The shelter and the
  warmth, of a sort, were in two crew buses. As the men entered, they beat
  their hands and pinched their faces, numb from the biting wind still
  sweeping icily across the snow-covered airfield. The buses and other
  vehicles, including trucks, snow clearance equipment, a fuel tanker,
  assorted service cars, and a roaring power cart-most with beacon lights
  flashing-were still clustered on the taxiway close by. The whole scene
  was bathed by floodlights, creating a white oasis of snow-reflected light
  in the surrounding darkness.
  The twirt trenches, each six feet wide, now extended forward and upward
  from the big jet's main wheels to the firmer ground onto which Patroni
  hoped the airplane could be moved under its own power. At the deepest
  level of the trenches was a mess of mud beneath snow, which had
  originally trapped the momentarily strayed airliner. The mud and slush
  now mingled, but became less viscous as both trenches angled upward. A
  third trench, less deep, and narrower than the other two,
 364          AIRPORT

 had been dug to allow passage of the nosewheel. Once the firmer ground was
 reached, the aircraft would be clear of runway three zero, over which one
 of its wings now extended, It could also be maneuvered with reasonable
 ease onto the solid surface of the adjoining taxiway.
  Now the preparatory work was almost complete, the success of what came
  next would depend on the aircraft's pilots, still waiting on the Boeing
  707's flight deck, high above the current activity. What they would have
  to judge was how much power they could safely use to propel the aircraft
  forward, without upending it on its nose.
  Through most of the time since he arrived, Joe Patroni had wielded a
  shovel with the rest of the men digging. Inactivity came hard to him.
  Sometimes, too, he welcomed the chance to keep himself fit; even now,
  more than twenty years since quitting the amateur boxing ring, he was in
  better shape physically than most men years his junior. The airline
  ground crewmen enjoyed seeing Patroni's cocky, stocky figure working with
  them. He led and exhorted . . . "Keep moving, son, or we'll figure we're
  gravediggers, and you the corpse." . . . "The way you guys keep heading
  for that bus, looks like you've got a woman stashed there." . . . "If you
  lean on that shovel any more, Jack, you'll freeze solid like Lot's wife."
  . . . "Men, we want this airplane moved before it's obsolete."
  So far, Joe Patroni had not talked with the captain and first officer,
  having left that to the A6reo-Mexican foreman, Ingram, who had been in
  charge before Patroni's arrival. Ingram had passed up a message on the
  aircraft interphone, telling the pilots what was happening below.
  Now, straightening his back, and thrusting his shovel at Ingram, the
  maintenance chief advised, "Five minutes more should do it. When you're
  ready, get the men and trucks clear." He motioned to the snow-shrouded
  airplane. "When this one comes out, she'll be like a cork from a
  champagne bottle."
  Ingram, huddled into his parka, still pinched and cold as he had been
  earlier, nodded.
             AIRPORT           365

  "While you're doing that," Patroni said, "I'll yak with the fly boys.
  The old-fashioned boarding ramp which had been trundled from the terminal
  several hours ago to disembark the stranded passengers was still in place
  near the aircraft's nose. Joe Patroni climbed the ramp, its steps covered
  in deep snow, and let himself into the front passenger cabin. He went
  for-ward to the flight deckwith relief, lighting his inevitable cigar as
  he went.
  In contrast to the cold and wind-blown snow outside, the pilots' cockpit
  was snug and quiet. One of the communications radios was tuned to soft
  music of a commercial station. As Patroni entered, the A6reo-Mexican
  first officer, in shirt-sleeves, snapped a switch and the music stopped.
  "Don't worry about doing that." The chunky maintenance chief shook
  himself like a bull terrier while snow cascaded from his clothing.
  "Nothing wrong with taking things easy. After all, we didn't expect you
  to come down and shovel."
  Only the first officer and captain were in the cockpit. Patroni
  remembered hearing that the flight engineer had gone with the
  stewardesses and passengers to the terminal.
  The captain, a heavy-set, swarthy man who resembled Anthony Quinn,
  swiveled around in his port-side seat. He said stiffly, "We have our job
  to do. You have yours." His English was precise.
  "That's right," Patroni acknowledged. "Only trouble is, our job gets
  fouled up and added to. By other people."
  "If you are speaking of what has happened here," the captain said, "Madre
  de Dios!-you do not suppose that I placed this airplane in the mud on
  purpose."
  "No, I don't." Patroni discarded his cigar, which was maimed from
  chewing, put a new one in his mouth, and lit it. "But now it's there, I
  want to make sure we get it out-this next time we try. If we don't, the
  airplane'll be in a whole lot deeper; so will all of us, including you."
  He nodded toward the captain's seat. "How'd you like me to sit there and
  drive it out?"
 366          AIRPORT

  The captain flushed. Few people in any airline talked as casually to
  four-stripers as Joe Patroni.
  "No, thank you," the captain said coldly. He might have replied even more
  unpleasantly, except that at the moment he was suffering acute
  embarrassment for having got into his present predicament at all. To-
  morrow in Mexico City, he suspected, he would face an unhappy, searing
  session with his airline's chief pilot. He raged inwardly: Jesucristo y
  por la amor de Dios!
  "There's a lotta half-frozen guys outside who've been busting their
  guts," Patroni insisted. "Getting out.now's tricky. I've done it before.
  Maybe you should let me again."
  The A6reo-Mexican captain bridled. "I know who you are, Mr. Patroni, and
  I am told that you are likely to help us move from this bad ground, where
  others have failed. So I have no doubt that you are licensed to taxi
  airplanes. But let me remind you there are two of us here who are
  licensed to fly them. It is what we are paid for. Therefore we shall
  remain at the controls."
  "Suit yourself." Joe Patroni shrugged, then waved his cigar at the
  control pedestal. "Only thing is, when I give the word, open those
  throttles all the way. And I mean all the way, and don't chicken out."
  As he left the cockpit, he ignored angry glares from both pilots.
  Outside, digging had stopped; some of the men who had been working were
  warming themselves again in the crew buses. The buses and other
  vehicles-with the exception of the power cart, which was needed for
  starting engines-were being removed some distance from the airplane.
  Joe Patroni closed the forward cabin door behind him and descended the
  ramp. The foreman, huddled deeper than ever into his parka, reported,
  "Everything's set."
  Remembering his cigar was still lighted, Patroni puffed at it several
  times, then dropped it into the snow where it went out. He motioned to
  the silent jet engines. "Okay, let's light up all four."
  Several men were returning from the crew bus. A quartet put their
  shoulders to the ramp beside the air-
               AIRPORT           367

 craft and shoved it clear. Two others responded to the foreman's shout
 against the wind, "Ready to start engines!"
  One of the second pair stationed himself at the front of the aircraft,
  near the power cart. He wore a telephone headset plugged into the
  fuselage. The second man, with flashlight signal wands, walked forward
  to where he could be seen by the pilots above.
  Joe Patroni, with borrowed protective head pads, joined the crewman with
  the telephone headset. The remainder of the men were now scrambling from
  the sheltering buses, intent on watching what came next.
 In the cockpit, the pilots completed their checklist.
  On the ground below, the crewman with the telephone set began the jet
  starting ritual. "Clear to start engines."
  A pause. The captain's voice. "Ready to start, and pressurize the
  manifold."
  From the power cart blower, a stream of forced air hit the air turbine
  starter of number three engine. Compressor vanes turned, spun faster,
  whined. At fifteen percent speed, the first officer fed in aviation
  kerosene. As the fuel ignited, a smoke cloud belched back and the engine
  took hold with a deep-throated bellow.
 "Clear to start four."
  Number four engine followed three. Generators on both engines charging.
  The captain's voice. "Switching to generators. Disconnect ground power."
  Above the power cart, electric lines came down. "Disconnected. Clear to
  start two."
  Number two took hold. Three engines now. An encompassing roar. Snow
  streaming behind.
 Number one fired and held.
 "Disconnect air."
 "Disconnected."
  The umbilical air hose slipped down. The foreman drove the power cart
  away.
  Floodlights ahead of the aircraft had been moved to one side.
 Patroni exchanged headsets with the crewman near
 368          AIRPORT

 the front of the fuselage. The maintenance chief now had the telephone
 set, and communication with the pilots.
  "This's Patroni. VAen you're ready up there, let's roll her out."
  Ahead of the aircraft nose, the crewman with the lighted wands held them
  up, ready to be a guide along an elliptical path beyond the trenches,
  also cleared at Joe Patroni's direction. The crewman was ready to run if
  the 707 came out of the mud faster than expected.
  Patroni crouched close to the nosewheel. If the airplane moved quickly,
  he, too, was vulnerable. He held a hand near the interphone plug, ready
  to disconnect. He watched the main landing gear intently for a sign of
  forward movement.
 The captain's voice. "I am opening up."
  The tempo of the jets increased. In a roar like sustained thunder, the
  airplane shook, the ground beneath it trembled. But the wheels remained
  still.
  Patroni cupped his hands around the interphone mouthpiece. "More power!
  Throttles forward all the way!"
  Ile engine noise heightened but only slightly. The wheels rose
  perceptibly, but still failed to move forward.
 "Goddarnit! All the way!"
  For several seconds, the engine tempo remained as it was, then abruptly
  lessened. The captain's voice rattled the interphone; it had a sarcastic
  note. "Patroni, por favor, if I open my throttles all the way, this
  airplane will stand on its nose. Instead of a stranded 707, we shall both
  have a wrecked one."
  The maintenance chief had been studying the landing gear wheels, which
  had now settled back, and the ground around them. "It'll come out, I tell
  you! Ail it needs is the guts to pull full power."
  "Look to your own guts!" the captain snapped back. "I am shutting the
  engines down."
  Patroni shouted into the interphone. "Keep those motors running; hold 'em
  at idle! I'm coming up!" Moving forward under the nose, be motioned
  urgently for the boarding ramp to be repositioned. But even as it
             AIRPORT           369

 was being pushed into place, all four engines quieted and died.
  When he reached the cockpit, both pilots were unfastening their seat
  harnesses.
 Patroni said accusingly, "You chickened out!"
  The captain's reaction was surprisingly mild. "Es posible. Perhaps it is
  the only intelligent thing I have done tonight." He inquired formally,
  "Does your maintenance department accept this airplane?"
 "Okay." Patroni nodded. "We'll take it over."
  The first officer glanced at his watch and made an entry in a log.
  "When you have extricated this airplane, in whatever way," the
  A6reo-Mexican captain stated, "no doubt your company will be In touch
  with my company. Meanwhile, buenas noches."
  As the two pilots left, their heavy topcoats buttoned tightly at the
  neck, Joe Patroni made a swift, routine check of instruments and control
  settings. A minute or so later he followed the pilots down the outside
  ramp.
  The A6reo-Mexican foreman, Ingram, was waiting below. He nodded in the
  direction of the departing pilots, now hurrying toward one of the crew
  buses. "That was the same thing they done to me; not pulling enough
  power." He motioned gloomily toward the aircraft's main landing gear.
  "That's why she went in deep before; now she's dug herself in deeper
  still."
 It was what Joe Patroni had feared.
  With Ingram holding an electric lantern, he ducked under the fuselage to
  inspect the landing gear wheels; they were back in mud and slush again,
  almost a foot deeper than before. Patroni took the light and shone it
  under the wings; all four engine nacelles were disquietingly closer to
  the ground.
  "Nothing but a sky hook'll help her now," Ingram said.
  The maintenance chief considered the situation, then shook his head. "We
  got one more chance. We'll dig some more, bring the trenches down to
  where the wheels are now, then start the engines again. Only this time
  I'll drive."
 370          AIRPORT

 The wind and snow still howled around them.
  Shivering, Ingram acknowledged doubtfully, "I guess you're the doctor.
  But better you than me."
  Joe Patroni grinned. "If I don't blast her out, maybe I'll blow her
  apart."
  Ingram headed for the remaining crew bus to call out the men; the other
  bus had taken the A6reo-Mexican pilots to the terminal.
  Patroni calculated: there was another hour's work ahead before they could
  try moving the aircraft again. Therefore runway three zero would have to
  continue out of use for at least that long.
  He went to his radio-equipped pickup to report to air traffic control.

               7

 The theory that an overburdened, exhausted mind can exercise its own
 safety valve by retreating into passive serniawareness was unknown to Inez
 Guerrero. Never-theless, for her, the theory had proved true. At this
 moment she was a mental walking-wounded case.
  The events of tonight affecting her personally, coupled with her
  accumulated distress and weariness of weeks, had proved a final crushing
  defeat. It prompted her mind--like an overloaded circuit-to switch off.
  The condition was temporary, not permanent, yet while it remained Inez
  Guerrero had forgotten where she was, or why.
  The mean, uncouth taxi driver who bad brought her to the airport had not
  helped. When bargaining downtown, he agreed to seven dollars as the price
  of the ride. Getting out, Inez proffered a ten dollar bill-almost the
  last money she had--expecting change. Mumbling that he bad no change but
  would get some, the cabbie drove
              AIRPORT          371

 off. Inez waited for ten anxious minutes, watching the terminal clock
 which was nearing I I P. m.-the time of Flight Two's departure-before it
 dawned on her that the man had no intention of returning. She had noticed
 neither the taxi number nor the driver's name-something the driver had
 gambled on. Even if she had, Inez Guerrero was not the kind who complained
 to authority; the driver had correctly guessed that, too.
  Despite the initial slowness of her journey from downtown, she could have
  reached Flight Two before it left-but for the time spent waiting for the
  non-appearing change. As it was, she arrived at the departure gate to see
  the airplane taxiing away.
  Even then, to find out if her husband, D.O., was really aboard, Inez had
  the presence of mind to use the subterfuge which the Trans America
  inquiries girl, Miss Young, suggested on the telephone. A uniformed agent
  was just leaving gate forty-seven, where Flight Two had been. Inez
  accosted him.
  As Miss Young advised, Inez avoided asking a direct question, and made
  the statement, "My husband is on that flight which just left." She
  explained that she had missed seeing her husband, but wanted to be sure
  he was safely aboard. Inez unfolded the yellow time-payment contract
  which she bad discovered at home among D.O.'s shirts, and showed it to
  the Trans America agent. He barely glanced at it, then checked the papers
  he was holding.
  For a moment or two Inez wondered hopefully if she had made a mistake in
  presuming that D-0. was leaving on the flight; the idea of his going to
  Rome at all still seemed fantastic. Then the agent said, yes, there was
  a D. 0. Guerrero aboard Flight Two, and be, the agent, was sorry that
  Mrs. Guerrero had missed seeing her husband, but everything was in a
  mixup tonight because of the storm, and now if she would please excuse
  him ...
  It was when the agent had gone and Inez realized that despite the press
  of people around her in the terminal, she was utterly alone, that she
  began to cry.
 At first the tears came slowly; then, as she remem- 372          AIRPORT

 bered all that bad gone wrong, they streamed in great heaving sobs which
 shook her body. She cried for the past and for the present; for the home she
 had had and lost; for her children whom she could no longer keep with her;
 for D.O. who, despite his faults as a husband, and the failure to support
 his family, was at least familiar, but now'had deserted her. She wept for
 what she herself had been and had become; for the fact that she had no
 money, nowhere to go but to the mean, cockroach-infested rooms downtown,
 from which she would be evicted tomorrow, having nothing left-after the taxi
 ride and driver's theft-from the pathetically small amount with which she
 had hoped to stave off the landlord . . . she was not even sure if she bad
 enough small change to return downtown. She cried because her shoes still
 hurt her feet; for her clothes which were shabby and sodden; for her
 weariness, and because she had a cold and a fever which she could feel
 getting worse. She cried for herself and all others for whom every hope was
 gone.
  It was then, to avoid stares of people who were watching, that she began
  walking aimlessly through the terminal, still weeping as she went.
  Somewhere near that time, too, the defensive machinery of her mind took
  over, inducing a protective numbness, so that her sorrow persisted but its
  reasons, for a while, were mercifully blurred.
  Soon after, an airport policeman found her and, with a sensitivity for
  which police are not always credited, placed her in as obscure a comer as
  he could find while telephoning his superiors for instructions. Lieutenant
  Ordway happened to be nearby and dealt with the matter personally. It was
  he who decided that Inez Guerrero, though incoherent and upset, was
  harmless, and had ordered her taken to the airport general manager's
  office-the only place Ned Ordway could think of which was quiet, yet less
  intimidating than police headquarters.
  Inez had gone docilely, in an elevator and along a mezzanine, only
  half-knowing that she was being taken anywhere at all, and not caring; and
  after, had sat
              AIRPORT          373

 quietly in a seat she was guided to, her body, if not her mind, grateful
 for the rest. She had been aware of people coming and going, and some had
 spoken, but she had brought neither the sight nor sound of them into
 focus, the effort seeming too much.
  But after a while, her resilience-which is another word for strength of
  the human spirit, which all possess, however burdened or humble-brought
  her back to a realization, even though vague, that she must move on,
  because life moved on, and always had and would, no matter how many
  defeats it wrought, or dreary or empty as it might seem.
  So Inez Guerrero stood up, still not sure where she was or how she had
  come there, but prepared to go.
  It was then that the Meadowood delegation, escorted by Lieutenant Ordway,
  entered the anteroom to Mel Bakersfeld's office, where Inez was. The
  delegation continued into the other room, then Ned Ordway had returned
  to speak with Inez Guerrero, and Mel observed the two of them togethet
  briefly before the door to his office closed.
  Inez, through her miasma of uncertainty, was also conscious of the big
  Negro policeman, whom she had a feeling she had seen somewhere before,
  quite recently, and he bad been kind then, as he was being kind now,
  leading her with quiet, not-quite-questions, so that he seemed to
  understand, without her ever saying so, that she had to return downtown
  and wasn't sure she had enough money for it. She started to fumble with
  her purse, intending to count what was there, but he stopped her. Then,
  with his back to the other room, he slipped three one-dollar bills into
  her hand, and came with her outside, pointing the way down to where, he
  said, she would find a bus, and added that what he had given her would
  be enough for the fare, with something over for wherever she had to go
  when she got to the city.
  The policeman bad gone then, returning in the direction from which he had
  come, and Inez did what she was told, going down some stairs; then almost
  at the big door through which she was to go for the bus, she had
 374          AIRPORT

 seen a familiar sight-a hot dog counter; and at that moment she realized
 how hungry and thirsty she was, on top of everything else. She had groped
 in her purse, and found thirty-five cents, and bought a hot dog, and
 coffee in a paper cup, and somehow the sight of those two very ordinary
 things was reassuring. Not far from the food counter, she found a seat and
 tucked herself into a corner. She wasn't sure how long ago that was but
 now, with the cofTee gone and the hot dog eaten, awareness which earlier
 had started to come back, was receding from her once more in a comfortable
 way. There was something comforting, too, about the crowds around her, the
 noises, and loudspeaker announcements. Twice Inez thought she heard her
 own name on the loudspeakers, but knew it was imagination and couldn't be
 true because no one would call her, or even know that she was here.
  She realized dimly that sometime soon she would have to move on, and knew
  that tonight especially it would entail an effort. But for a while, she
  thought, she would sit here quietly, where she was.

               8

 With one exception, those summoned to the airport general manager's office
 on the administrative mezzanine arrived there quickly. The calls made to
 them-some by Mel Bakersfeld, others by Tanya Livingston-had stressed
 urgency, and the need to leave whatever they were doing.
  The District Transportation Manager of Trans America-Tanva's boss, Bert
  Weatherby-arrived first.
  Lieutenant Ordway, having started his policemen searching for Inez
  Guerrero, though still not knowing why, was close behind. For the time
  being Ordway had
              AIRPORT          375

 abandoned to their own devices the sizable group of Meadowood residents,
 still milling in the main concourse, listening to Lawyer Freemantle
 expound their case before TV cameras.
  As the D.T.M., Weatherby, entered Mel's office through the anteroom door,
  he inquired briskly, "Mel, what's all this about?"
  "We're not sure, Bert, and we haven't a lot to go on yet, but there's a
  possibility there could be a bomb aboard your Flight Two."
  The D.T.M. looked searchingly at Tanya, but wasted no time in asking why
  she was there. His gaze swung back to Mel. "Let's hear what you know."
  Addressing both the D.T.M. and Ned Ordway, Mel summarized what was known
  or conjectured so far: the report of Customs Inspector Standish
  concerning the passenger with the attach6 case, clasped in a way which
  Standish-an experienced observer-believed to be suspicious; Tanya's
  identification of the man with the case as one D. 0. Guerrero, or perhaps
  Buerrero; the downtown agent's revelation that Guerrero checked in
  without any baggage other than the small case already mentioned;
  Guerrero's purchase at the airport of three hundred thousand dollars'
  worth of flight insurance, which he barely had enough money to pay for,
  so that he appeared to be setting out on a five-thousand mile journey,
  not only without so much as a change of clothing, but also without funds;
  and finally-perbaps coincidentally, perhaps not-Mrs. Inez Guerrero, sole
  beneficiary of her husband's flight insurance policy, had been wandering
  through the terminal, apparently in great distress.
  While Mel was speaking, Customs Inspector Harry Standish, still in
  uniform, came in, followed by Bunnie Vorobioff. Bunnie entered
  uncertainly, glancing questioningly around her at the unfamiliar people
  and surroundings. As the import of what Mel was saying sank in, she paled
  and appeared scared.
  The one non-arrival was the gate agent who had been in charge at gate
  forty-seven when Flight Two left. A staff supervisor whom Tanya had
  spoken to a few min-
   376          AIRPORT

 utes ago informed her that the agent was now off duty and on his way home.
 She gave instructions for a message to be left, and for the agent to check
 in by telephone as soon as he arrived. Tanya doubted if anything would be
 gained by bringing him back to the airport tonight; for one thing, she
 already knew that the agent did not remember Guerrero boarding. But
 someone else might want to question him by phone.
  "I called everyone here who's involved so far," Mel informed the D.T.M.,
  "in case you or someone else have questions. What we have to decide, I
  think-and it's mainly your decision-is whether or not we have enough to
  warn your captain of Flight Two." Mel was reminded again of what he had
  temporarily pushed from mind: that the flight was commanded by his
  brother-inlaw, Vernon Demerest. Later, Mel knew, he might have to do some
  reconsidering about certain implications. But not yet.
  "I'm thinking now." The D.T.M. looked grim; he swung to Tanya. "Whatever
  we decide, I want Operations in on this. Find out if Royce Kettering is
  still on the base. If so, get him here fast." Captain Kettering was Trans
  America's chief pilot at Lincoln International; it was he who earlier
  tonight had test-flown aircraft N-731-TA, before-as Flight Two, The
  Golden Argosy-it took off for Rome.
 "Yes, sir," Tanya said.
  While she was on one telephone, another rang. Mel answered.
  It was the tower watch chief. "I have the report you wanted on Trans
  America Two." One of Mel's calls for a few minutes ago had been to air
  traffic control, requesting information on the flight's takeoff time and
  progress.
 "Go ahead."
  "Takeoff was 11: 13 local time." Mel's eyes swung to a wall clock. It was
  now almost ten minutes after midnight; the flight had been airborne
  nearly an hour.
  The tower chief continued, "Chicago Center handed off the flight to
  Cleveland Center at 12:27 EST, Cleveland handed it to Toronto at 01:03
  EST; that's seven
             AIRPORT           377

 minutes ago. At the moment, Toronto Center reports the aircraft's position
 as near London, Ontario. I have more information--course, height, speed-if
 you want it."
 "That's enough for now," Mel said. "Thanks."
  "One other thing, Mr. Bakersfeld." The tower chief summarized Joe Patroni's
  latest bulletin about runway three zero; the runway would be out of use for
  at least another hour. Mel listened impatiently; at the moment, other
  things seemed more important.
  When he hung up, Mel repeated the information about Flight Two's position
  to the D.T.M.
  Tanya came off the other phone. She reported, "Operations found Captain
  Kettering. He's coming."
  "That woman-the passenger's wife," the D.T.M. said. "What was her name?"
 Ned Ordway answered. "Inez Guerrero."
 "Where is she?"
  "We don't know." The policeman explained that his men were searching the
  airport, although the woman might be gone. He added that city police
  headquarters had been alerted, and all buses from the airport to downtown
  were now being checked on arrival.
  "When she was here," Mel explained, "we had no idea. . ."
  The D.T.M. grunted. "We were all slow." He glanced at Tanya, then at
  Customs Inspector Standish, who so far had not spoken. The D.T.M., Tanya
  knew, was remembering ruefully his own instructions to "Forget it!"
  Now he informed her, "We'll have to tell the captain of the flight
  something. He's entitled to know as much as we do, even though so far we're
  only guessing."
  Tanya asked, "Shouldn't we send a description of Guerrero? Captain Demerest
  may want to have him identified without his knowing."
  "If you do," Mel pointed out, "we can help. There are people here who've
  seen the man."
  "All right," the D.T.M. acknowledged, "we'll work on that. Meanwhile,
  Tanya, call our dispatcher. Tell him there's an important message coming in
  a few minutes, and to get a Selcal circuit hooked into Flight Two.
 378          AIRPORT

 I want this kept private, not broadcast for everybody. At least, not yet."
 Tanya returned to the telephone.
 Met asked Bunnie, "Are you Miss Vorobioff?"
  As she nodded nervously, the eyes of the others turned to her.
  Automatically, those of the men dropped to Bunnie's capacious breasts;
  the D.T.M. seemed about to whistle, but changed his mind.
  Mel said, "You realize which man we're talking about?"
 "I ... I'm not sure."
  "It's a mari named D. 0. Guerrero. You sold him an insurance policy
  tonight, didn't you?"
 Bunnie nodded again. "Yes .
  "When you wrote the policy, did you get a good look at him?"
  She shook her head. "Not really." Her voice was low. She moistened her
  lips.
 Mel seemed surprised. "I thought on the phone .
  "There were many other people," Bunnie said defensively.
 "But you told me you remembered this one."
 "It was someone else."
 "And you don't recall the man Guerrero?"
 "No. 11

 Mel looked baffled.
  "Let me, Mr. Bakersfeld." Ned Ordway took a pace for-ward; he put his
  face near the girl's. "You're afraid of getting involved, aren't you?"
  Ordway's voice was a harsh, policeman's voice, not at all the gentle tone
  he used earlier tonight with Inez Guerrero.
 Bunnie flinched, but didn't answer.
 Ordway persisted, "Well, aren't you? Answer me."
 "I don't know."
  "Yes, you do! You're afraid to help anyone for fear of what it might do
  to you. I know your kind." Ordway spat out the words contemptuously. This
  was a savage, tough side of the lieutenant's nature which Mel had never
  seen before. "Now you hear me, baby. If it's trouble you're scared of,
  you're buying it right now. The
              AIRPORT          379

 way to get out of trouble-if you can-is to answer questions. And answer
 fast! We're running out of time."
  Bunnie trembled. She had learned to fear police interrogation in the grim
  school of Eastern Europe. It was a conditioning never totally erased.
  Ordway had recognized the signs.
  "Miss Vorobioff," Mel said. "There are almost two hundred people aboard the
  airplane we're concerned with. They may be in great danger. Now, I'll ask
  you again. Did you get a good look at the man Guerrero?"
 Slowly, Bunnie nodded. "Yes."
 "Describe him, please."
  She did so, haltingly at first, then with more confidence.
  While the others listened, a picture of D. 0. Guerrero emerged: gaunt and
  spindly; a pale, sallow face with protruding jaw; long scrawny neck; thin
  lips; a small sandy mustache; nervous hands with restless fingers. When she
  got down to it, Bunnie Vorobioff proved herself a keen observer.
  The D.T.M., now seated at Mel's desk, wrote the description, incorporating
  it with a message for Flight Two which lie was drafting.
  When Burmie came to the part about D. 0. Guerrero barely having enough
  money-and no Italian money; the man's nervous tension, the fumbling with
  dimes and pennies; his excitement on discovering a five-dollar bill in an
  inside pocket, the D.T.M. looked up with a mixture of disgust and horror.
  "My God! And you still issued a policy. Are you people mad?"
 "I thought . . ." Bunnie started to say.
 "You thought! But you didn't do anything, did you?"
  Her face drained and white, Bunnie Vorobioff shook her head.
  Mel reminded the D.T.M., "Bert, we're wasting time. 11
  "I know, I know! Just the same The D.T.M. clenched the pencil he had been
  using. He muttered, "It isn't just her, or even the people who employ her.
  It's us -the airlmes; we're as much to blame. We agree with
 380          AIRPORT

 the pilots about airport flight insurance, but haven't the guts to say so.
 We let them do our dirty work. . ."
  Mel said tersely to Customs Inspector Standish, "Harry, is there anything
  you'd add to the description of Guerrero?"
  "No," Standish said. "I wasn't as near to him as this young lady, and she
  saw some things I didn't. But I did watch the way he held the case, as
  you know, and I'd say this: If what you think is in there really is,
  don't anyone try to grab that case away from him."
 "So what do you suggest?"
  The Customs man shook his head. "I'm no expert, so I can't tell you;
  except, I guess you'd have to get it by some kind of trickery. But if
  it's a bomb, it has to be self-contained in the case, and that means
  somewhere there's a trigger, and the chances are it'll be the kind of
  trigger he can get to quickly. He's possessive about the case now. If
  someone tried to take it away, he'd figure he was found out and had
  nothing to lose." Standish added grin-fly, "A trigger finger can get
  mighty itchy."
  "Of course," Mel said, "we still don't know if the man's an ordinary
  eccentric, and all he's got in there are his pajamas."
  "If you're asking my opinion," the Customs inspector said, "I don't think
  so. I wish I did, because I've got a niece on that flight."
  Standish had been conjecturing unhappily: If anything went wrong, how in
  God's name would he break the news to his sister in Denver? He remembered
  his last sight of Judy: that sweet young girl, playing with the baby from
  the next seat. She had kissed him. Goodbye, Uncle Harry! Now, he wished
  desperately that he had been more definite, had acted more responsibly,
  about the man with the attach6 case.
  Well, Standish thought, though it might be late, at least he would be
  definite now.
  "I'd like to say something else." Tle eyes of the others swung to him.
  "I have to tell you this because we haven't time to waste on modesty: I'm
  a good judge of people, mostly on first sight, and usually I can smell
  the bad ones. It's
              AIRPORT          381

 an instinct, and don't ask me how it works because I couldn't tcll you,
 except that in my job some of us get to be that way. I spotted that man
 tonight, and I said he was 'suspicious'; I used that word because I was
 thinking of smuggling, which is the way I'm trained. Now, knowing what we
 do-even little as it is-I'd make it stronger. The man Guerrero is
 dangerous." Standish eyed the Trans America D.T.M. "Mr. Weatherby-get that
 word 'dangerous' across to your people in the air."
  "I intend to, Inspector." The D.T.M. looked up from his writing. Most of
  what Standish had been saying was already included in the message for
  Flight Two.
  Tanya, still on the telephone, was talking with Trans America's New York
  dispatcher by tie line. "Yes, it will be a long message. Will you put
  someone on to copy, please?"
  A sharp knock sounded on the office door and a tall man with a seamed,
  weatherworn face and sharp blue eyes came in from the anteroom. He
  carried a heavy topcoat and wore a blue serge suit which might have been
  a uniform, but wasn't. The newcomer nodded to Mel, but before either
  could speak, the D.T.M. cut in.
  "Royce, thanks for coming quickly. We seem to have some trouble." He held
  out the notepad on which he had been writing.
  Captain Kettering, the base chief pilot for Trans America, read the draft
  message carefully, his only reaction a tightening at the mouth as his
  eyes moved down the page. Like many others, including the D.T.M., it was
  unusual for the chief pilot to be at the airport this late at night. But
  exigencies of the three-day storm, with the need for frequent operating
  decisions, had kept him here.
  ne second telephone rang, cutting through the temporary silence. Mel
  answered it, then motioned to Ned Ordway who took the receiver.
  Captain Kettering finished reading. The D.T.M. asked, "Do you agree to
  sending that? We've dispatch standing by with a Selcal hook-up."
 Kettering nodded. "Yes, but I'd like you to add:
 382          AIRPORT

 'Suggest return or alternate landing at captain's discretion,' and have
 the dispatcher give them the latest weather."
  "Of course," The D.T.M. penciled in the extra words, then passed the pad
  to Tanya. She began dictating the message.
  Captain Kettering glanced at the others in the room. "Is that everything
  we know?"
 "Yes," Mel said. "It is, so far."
  "We may know more soon," Lieutenant Ordway said. He had returned from the
  telephone. "We just found Guerrero's wife."

  The message from D.T.M. Lincoln International was addressed, CAPTAIN,
  'FRANS AMERICA FLIGHT Two, and began:

  UNCONFIRMED POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT MALE TOURIST PASSEN(;ER D. 0.
  GUERRERO A130ARD YOUR FLIGHT MAY HAVE EXPLOSIVE DEVICE IN HIS POSSESSION.
  PASSENGER WITH NO LUGGAGE AND APPARENTLY WITHOUT FUNDS INSURED SELF
  HFAVILY BEFORE DEPARTURE. WAS OBSERVED BEHAVING SUSPICIOUSLY WITH ATTACHE
  TYPE BRIEFCASE CARRIED AS HAND BAGGAGE. DESCRIPTION FOLLOWS ...

  As the D.T.M. had foreseen, it took several minutes for a connection to
  be established, through company radio, with Flight Two. Since the earlier
  Selcal message to the flight, concerning its stowaway Mrs. Ada Quonsett,
  the aircraft had moved out of Trans America's Cleveland dispatch area
  into that of New York. Now, company messages must be passed through a New
  York dispatcher for relaying to the flight.
  The message, as Tanya dictated it, was being typed by a girl clerk in New
  York. Alongside the clerk a Trans America dispatcher read the first few
  lines, then reached for a direct phone to an operator at ARINC-a private
  communications network maintained cooperatively by all major airlines.
             AIRPORT           383

  The ARINC operator-at another location in New York-set up a second
  circuit between himself and Trans America dispatch, then punched into a
  transmitter keyboard a four-letter code, AGFG, specifically assigned to
  aircraft N-731-TA. Once more, like a telephone call to a single number
  on a party line, an alerting signal would be received aboard Flight Two
  only.
  A few moments later the voice of Captain Vernon Demerest, responding from
  high above Ontario, Canada, was audible in New York. "This is Trans
  America Two answering Selcal."
  "Trans America Two, this is New York dispatch. We have an important
  message. Advise when ready to copy.
  A brief' pause, then Demerest again. "Okay, New York. Go ahead."
  "CAPTAIN, FLIGHT Two," the dispatcher began. "UNCONFIRMED POSSIBILITY
  EXISTS..."

  Inez had still been sitting quietly, in her comer near the food counter,
  when she felt her shoulder shaken.
 "Inez Guerrero! Are you Mrs. Guerrero?"
  She looked up. It took several seconds to cotlect her thoughts, which had
  been vague and drifting, but she realized that it was a policeman who was
  standing over her.
 He shook her again and repeated the question.
  Inez managed to nod. She became aware that this was a different policeman
  from the earlier one. This one was white, and neither as gentle nor as
  softly spoken as the other.
  "Let's move it, lady!" The policeman tightened his grip on her shoulder
  in a way which hurt, and pulled her abruptly to her feet. "You hear
  me?-let's go! They're screamin' for you upstairs, and every cop in the
  joint's bin searchin' for you."
  Ten minutes later, in Mel's office, Inez was the pivot of attention. She
  occupied a chair in the room's center to which she had been guided on
  arrival. Lieutenant
 384          AIRPORT

 Ordway faced her. The policeman who had escorted Inez in was gone.
  The others who had been present earlier-Mel, Tanya, Customs Inspector
  Standish, Bunnie Vorobioff, the Trans America D.T.M., Weatherby, and the
  chief pilot, Captain Kettering, were ranged about the room. All had
  remained at Mel's request.
  "Mrs. Guerrero," Ned Ordway said. "Why is your husband going to Rome?"
  Inez stared back bleakly and didn't answer. The policeman's voice
  sharpened, though not unkindly. "Mrs. Guerrero, please listen to me
  carefully. There are some important questions which I have to ask. They
  concern your husband, and I need your help. Do you understand?"
 "I ... I'm not sure."
  "You don't have to be sure about why I'm asking the questions. There'll be
  time for that later. What I want you to do is help me by answering. Will
  you? Please."
  The D.T.M. cut in urgently. "Lieutenant, we haven't got all night. That
  air-plane is moving away from us at six hundred miles an hour. If we have
  to, let's get tough. "
  "Leave this to me, Mr. Weatherby," Ordway said sharply. "If we all start
  shouting, it'll take a lot more time to get a great deal less."
  The D.T.M. continued to look impatient, but kept quiet.
  "Inez," Ordway said;           is it okay if I call you
 Inez?"
 She nodded.
 "Inez, will you answer my questions?"
 "Yes ... if I can."
 "Why is your husband going to Rome?"
  Her voice was strained, barely more than a whisper. "I don't know."
 "Do you have friends there; relatives?"
  "No . . . There is a distant cousin in Milan, but we have never seen him."
 "Do vour husband and the cousin correspond?"
 "No.;,
             AIRPORT           385

  "Can you think of any reason why your husband would go to visit the
  cousin-suddenly?"
 "There is no reason."
  Tanya interjected, "In any case, Lieutenant, if anyone was going to Milan
  they wouldn't use our Rome flight. They'd fly Alitalia, which is direct
  and cbeaper-and Alitalia has a flight tonight, too."
  Ordway nodded. "We can probably rule out the cousin." He asked Inez,
  "Does your husband have business in Italy?"
 She shook her head.
 "What is your husband's business?"
 "He is . . . was ... a contractor."
 "What kind of contractor?"
  Slowly but perceptibly, Inez's grasp of things was coming back. "He built
  buildings, houses, developments."
 "You said 'was.' Why isn't he a contractor now?"
 "Things ... went wrong."
 "You mean financially?"
 "Yes, but ... why are you asking?"
  "Please believe me, Inez," Ordway said, "I've a good reason. It concerns
  your husband's safety, as well as others'. Will you take my word?"
 She looked up. Her eyes met his. "All right."
 "Is your husband in financial trouble now?"
 She hesitated only briefly. "Yes."
 "Bad trouble?"
 Inez nodded slowly.
 "Is he broke? In debt?"
 Again a whisper." Yes."
  "Then where did be get money for his fare to Rome?"
  "I think . . ." Inez started to say something about her ring which D.O.
  had pawned, then remembered the Trans America Airlines time payment
  contract. She took the now-creased yellow sheet from her purse and gave
  it to Ordway who glanced over it. The D.T.M. joined him.
  "It's Made out to 'Buerrero,' " the D.T.M. said. "Though the signature
  could be anything."
 386          AIRPORT

  Tanya pointed out, "Buerrero is the name we had at first on the flight
  manifest."
  Ned Ordway shook his head. "It isn't important now, but it's an old trick
  if anyone has a lousy credit rating. They use a wrong first letter so the
  bad rating won't show up in inquiry-at least, not in a hurry. Later, if the
  mistake's discovered, it can be blamed on whoever filled out the form."
  Ordway swung sternly back to Inez. He had the yellow printed sheet in hand.
  "Why did you agree to this when you knew your husband was defrauding?"
 She protested, "I didn't know."
 "Then how is it you have this paper now?"
  Haltingly, she related how she had found it earlier this evening, and had
  come to the airport, hoping to intercept her husband before departure.
 "So until tonight you had no idea that he was going?" "No, sir."
 "Anywhere at all?"
 Inez shook her head.
  "Even now, can you think of any reason for him going?"
 She looked bewildered. "No."
 "Does your husband ever do irrational things?"
 Inez hesitated.
 "Well," Ordway said, "does he?"
 "Sometimes, lately . . ."
 "He has been irrational?"
 A whisper. "Yes."
 "ViolentT'
 Reluctantly, Inez nodded.
  "Your husband was carrying a case tonight," Ordway said quietly. "A small
  attach6 case, and he seemed specialty cautious about it. Have you any idea
  what might be inside?"
 "No, sir."
  "Inez, you said your husband was a contractor-a building ~ontractor. In the
  course of his work did he ever use explosives?"
  The quc,~tion had been put so casually and without preamble, that those
  listening seemed scarcely aware it
              AIRPORT          387

 had been asked. But as its import dawned, there was a sudden tenseness in
 the room.
 "Oh, yes," Inez said. "Often."
  Ordway paused perceptibly before asking, "Does your husband know a lot
  about explosives?"
  "I think so. He always liked using them. But Abruptly, she stopped.
 "But what, Inez?"
  Suddenly there was a nervousness to Inez Guerrero's speech which had not
  been there before. "But . . . he handles them very carefully." Her eyes
  moved around the room. "Please ... what is this about?"
  Ordway said softly, "You have an idea, Inez; haven't you?"
  When she didn't answer, almost;with indifference he asked, "Where are you
  living?"
  She gave the address of the South Side apartment and he wrote it down.
  "Is that where your husband was this afternoon; earlier this evening?"
 Thoroughly frightened now, she nodded.
  Ordway turned to Tanya. Without raising his voice, he asked, "Get a line
  open, please, to police headquarters downtown; this extension"-he
  scribbled a number on a pad. "Ask them to hold."
 Tanya went quickly to Mel's desk.
  Ordway asked Inez, "Did your husband have any explosives in the
  apartment?" As she hesitated, he bore in with sudden toughness. "You've
  told the truth so far; don't lie to me now! Did he?"
 "Yes. 1)

 "What kind of explosives?"
  "Some dynamite . . . and caps . . . They were left over."
 "From his contracting work?"
 "Yes. 11

  "Did he ever say anything about them? Give a reason for keeping them?"
  Inez shook her head. "Only, that . . . if you knew how to handle them .
  . . they were safe."
 "Where were the explosives kept?"
 "Just in a drawer."
 388          AIRPORT

 "In a drawer where?"
  "The bedroom." An expression of sudden shock crossed Inez Guerrero's
  face. Ordway spotted it.
 "You thought of something then! What was it?"
 "Nothing!" Panic was in her eyes and voice.
  "Yes, you did!" Ned Ordway leaned for-ward, close to Inez, his face
  aggressive. For the second time in this room tonight he exhibited nothing
  of kindness; only the rough, tough savagery of a policeman who needed an
  answer and would get it. He shouted, "Don't try holding back or lying!
  It won't work. Tell me what it was you thought." As Inez whimpered:
  "Never mind that! Tell me!"
 "Tonight ... I didn't think of it before . the things

 "The dynamite and caps?"
 "Yes.,'
 "You're wasting time! What about them?"
 Inez whispered, "They were gone!"
  Tanya said quietly, "I have your call, Lieutenant. They're holding."
 No one among the others spoke.
  Ordway nodded, his eyes still fixed on Inez. "Did you know that tonight,
  before your husband's flight took off, he insured himself heavily-very
  heavily indeednaming you as beneficiary?"
 "No, sir. I swear I don't know anything. .
  "I believe you," Ordway said. He stopped, considering, and when he spoke
  again his voice grated harshly.
  "Inez Guerrero, listen to me carefully. We believe your husband has those
  explosives, which you've told us about, with him tonight. We think be
  carried them onto that Rome flight, and, since there can be no other
  explanation for having them there, that he intends to destroy the
  airplane, killing himself and everyone else aboard. Now, I've one more
  question, and before you answer, think carefully, and remember those
  other people-innocent people, including children-who are on that flight,
  too. Inez, you know your husband; you know him as well as anyone alive.
  Could he ... for the insurance money; for you ... could he do what I have
  just said?"
              AIRPORT          389

  Tears streamed down Inez Guerrero's face. She seemed near collapse, but
  nodded slowly.
  "Yes." Her voice was choked. "Yes, I think he could."
  Ned Ordway turned away. He took the telephone from Tanya and began
  speaking rapidly in a low tone. He gave information, interspersed with
  several requests.
  Once Ordway paused, swinging back to Inez Guerrero. "Your apartment is
  going to be searched, and we'll get a warrant if necessary. But it wiU
  be easier if you consent. Do you?"
 Inez nodded dully.
  "Okay," Ordway said into the telephone, "she agrees." A minute or so
  later he hung up.
  Ordway told the D.T.M. and Mel, "We'll collect the evidence in the
  apartment, if there's any there. Apart from that, at the moment, there
  isn't a lot we can do."
  The D.T.M. said grimly, "There isn't a lot any of us can do, except maybe
  pray." His face strained and gray, he began writing a new message for
  Flight Two.

                9

 The hot hors d'oeuvres, which Captain Vernon Demerest had called for, had
 been served to the pilots of Flight Two. The appetizing assortment on a
 tray, brought by one of the stewardesses from the first class galley, was
 disappearing fast. Demerest grunted appreciatively as he bit into a
 lobster-and-mushroom tartlet garnished with Parmesan cheese.
  As usual, the stewardesses were pursuing their earnpaign to fatten the
  skinny young second officer, Cy Jordan. Surreptitiously they had slipped
  him a few extra hors d'oeuvres on a separate plate behind the two cap-
  tains and now, while Jordan fiddled with fuel crossfeed valves, his
  cheeks bulged with chicken livers in bacon.
 390          AIRPORT

  Soon, all three pilots, relaxing in turn in the dimly lighted cockpit,
  would be brought the same delectable entree and dessert which the airline
  served its first class passengers. The only things the passengers would
  get, which the crew did not, were table wine and champagne.
  Trans America, like most airlines, worked hard at providing an excellent
  cuisine aloft. There were some who argued that airlines--even
  international airlinesshould concern themselves solely with
  transportation, gear their in-flight service to commuter standards, and
  dispense with frills, including meals of any higher quality than a box
  lunch. Others, however, believed that too much of modem travel had become
  established at box lunch level, and welcomed the touch of style and
  elegance which good airborne meals provided. Airlines received remarkably
  few complaints about food service. Most passengers-tourist and first
  class-welcomed the meals as a diversion and consumed them zestfully.
  Vernon Demerest, searching out with his tongue the last succulent
  particles of lobster, was thinking much the same thing. At that moment
  the Selcal call chime sounded loudly in the cockpit and the radio panel
  warning light flashed on.
  Anson Harris's eyebrows went up. A single call on Selcal was out of the
  ordinary; two within less than an hour were exceptional.
  "What we need," Cy Jordan said from behind, "is an unlisted number."
 Demerest reached out to switch radios. "I'll get it."
  After the mutual identification between Flight Two and New York dispatch,
  Vernon Demerest began writing on a message pad under a hooded light. The
  message was from D.T.M. Lincoln International, and began: UNCONFIRMED
  POSSIBILITY EXISTS . . . As the wording progressed, Demerest's features,
  in the light's reflection, tautened. At the end he acknowledged briefly
  and signed off without comment.
  Dernerest handed the message pad to Anson Harris, who read it, leaning
  toward a light beside him. Harris
              AIRPORT          391

 whistled softly. He passed the pad over his shoulder to Cy Jordan.
  The Selcal message ended: SUGGEST RETURN OR ALTERNATE LANDING AT
  CAPTAIN'S DISCRETION.
  As both captains knew, there was a question of command to be decided.
  Although Anson Harris had been flying tonight as captain, with Demerest
  performing first officer duty, Vernon Demerest-as check pilot-had
  overriding authority if he chose to exercise it.
  Now, in response to Harris's questioning glance, Demcrest said brusquely,
  "You're in the left seat. What are we waiting for?"
  Harris considered only briefly, then announced, "We'll turn back, but
  making a wide slow turn; that way, passengers shouldn't notice. Then
  we'll have Gwen Meighen locate this guy they're worried about, because
  it's a sure thing one of us can't show up in the cabin, or we'll alert
  him." He shrugged. "After that, I guess we play it by ear."
  "Okay," Demerest assented. "You get us faced around; I'll handle the
  cabin end." He depressed the stewardess call button, using a three-ring
  code to summon Gwen.
  On a radio frequency he had been using earlier, Anson Harris called air
  route control. He announced laconically, "This is Trans America Two. We
  seem to have a problem here. Request clearance back to Lincoln, and radar
  vector from present position to Lincoln."
  Harris's swift reasoning had already ruled out landing at an alternate
  air-port. Ottawa, Toronto, and Detroit, they had been informed at
  briefing, were closed to air traffic because of the storm. Besides, to
  deal with the man they were concerned about back in the cabin, the crew
  of Flight Two needed time. Returning to Lincoln International would
  provide it.
  He had no doubt that Demerest had reached the same conclusion.
  From Toronto Air Route Center, more than six miles below, a controller's
  voice responded. "Trans America
 392          AIRPORT

 Two, Roger." A brief pause, then: "You may begin a left turn now to heading
 two seven zero. Stand by for an altitude change."
  "Roger, Toronto. We are commencing the turn. We'd like to make it wide and
  gradual."
 "Trans America Two. A wide turn approved."
  The exchange was low key, as such exchanges usually were. Both in the air
  and on the ground there was mutual awareness that most would be gained by
  calm, least by dramatics or excitement. By the nature of Flight Two's
  request, the ground controller was instantly aware that an emergency-real
  or potential-existed. Jetliners, in flight at cruising altitude, did not
  abruptly reverse course without a major reason. But the controller also
  knew that if and when the captain was ready, he would officially declare an
  emergency and report its cause. Until then, the controller would not waste
  the time of the crew-undoubtedly occupied with urgent business' of their
  own-by asking needless questions.
  Whatever help was sought from air route control, however, would be given
  without query, and as speedily as possible.
  Even now, on the ground, procedural wheels were turning. At Toronto Air
  Route Center, located in a handsome modem building some fourteen miles
  beyond the city limits, the controller receiving Flight Two's transmission
  had summoned a supervisor. The supervisor was liaising with other sectors,
  clearing a path ahead of Flight Two, as well as altitudes immediately
  below-the last as a precaution. Cleveland Center, which earlier had passed
  the flight to Toronto Center and now would receive it back, had been
  alerted also. Chicago Center, which would take over from Cleveland, was
  being notified.
  On the flight deck of Flight Two, a new air route control message was
  coming in. "Begin descent to flight level two eight zero. Report leaving
  flight level three three zero."
  Anson Harris acknowledged. "Toronto Center, this is Trans America Two. We
  are beginning descent now."
 On Harris's orders, Second Officer Jordan was re-              AIRPORT          393

 porting to Trans America dispatch, by company radio, the decision to return.
  The door from the forward cabin opened. Gwen Meighen came in.
  "Listen," she said, "if it's more hors d'oeuvres, I'm sorry, but you can't
  have them. In case you hadn't noticed, we happen to have a few passengers
  aboard."
  "I'll deal with the insubordination later," Demerest said. "Right now"-lie
  mimicked Gwen's English accent - we've got a spot o' bother."
  Superficially, little had changed on the flight deck since a few moments
  ago when the message from D.T.M. Lincoln had come in. Yet, subtly, the
  relaxed mood prevailing earlier had vanished. Despite their studied
  composure, the three-man crew was all-professional and sharp, their minds
  at peak acuity, each sensing the adjustment in the other two. It was to
  achieve such moments, responsively and quickly, that years of training and
  experience marked the long route to airline captaincy. Flying
  itself-controlling an airplane-was not a difficult achievement; what
  commercial pflots were paid high salaries for was their reserve of
  resourcefulness, airmanship, and general aviation wisdom. Demerest, Harris,
  and-to a lesser extent-Cy Jordan, were summoning their reserves now. The
  situation aboard Flight Two was not yet critical; with luck, it might not
  be critical at all. But if a crisis arose, mentally the crew was ready.
  "I want you to locate a passenger," Demerest told Gwen. "He isn't to know
  that you're looking for him. We have a description here. You'd better read
  the whole thing." He handed her the pad with the Selcal message. She moved
  nearer, holding it under the hooded light beside him.
  As the aircraft rolled slightly, Gwen's hand brushed Vernon Demerest's
  shoulder. He was conscious of her closeness and a faint famfliar perfume.
  Glancing sideways, he could see Gwen's profile in the semidarkness. Her
  expression as she read was serious, but not dismayed; it reminded him of
  what he had admired so much earlier this evening-her strength in no way
  less-
   394          AIRPORT

 ening her femininity. In a swift, fleeting second he remembered that twice
 tonight Gwen had declared she loved him. lie had wondered then: had he
 ever truly been in love himself? When you kept tight rein on personal
 emotions, you were never absolutely sure. But at this moment, instinct
 told him, his feeling about Gwen was the closest to loving he would ever
 know.
 Gwen was reading the message again, more slowly.
  Momentarily he felt a savage anger at this new circurnstance which was
  contriving to delay their planshis own and Gwen's-for Naples. Then he
  checked himself. This was a moment for professionalism only. Besides,
  what was happening now would merely mean delay, perhaps for a full
  twenty-four hours after their return to Lincoln; but eventually the
  flight would go. It did not occur to him that the bomb threat might not
  be disposed of quickly, or that it would fail to end as tamely as most
  others.
  Alongside Demerest, Anson Harris was still holding the aircraft in its
  gentle turn, using only the slightest amount of hank. It was a perfect
  turn, exactly executed, as demonstrated by each pilot's needle and ball
  indicator-the granddaddy of aviation flight instruments, still used on
  modern jets, as it was used in Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis, and
  airplanes long before. The needle was tilted, the ball dead center. But
  only compass and gyro betrayed the extent of the turn-that Flight Two was
  coming around a hundred and eighty degrees in course. Harris had declared
  that passengers would be unaware of the course reversal, and be would be
  right-unless someone, peering through a cabin window, happened to be
  familiar with positions of stars and moon in relation to westerly and
  easterly courses. Then they would observe the change, but that was a
  chance which had to be taken; fortunately, the ground being obscured by
  cloud meant that no one could see and identify cities. Now Harris was
  beginning to lose height also, the aircraft's nose lowered slightly, with
  throttles pulled back the barest amount, so that the note of engines
  would change no more than was usual during any flight. Harris was
             AIRPORT           395

 concentrating, flying with textbook precision, ignoring Gwen and Demerest.
 Gwen handed the message pad back.
  "What I want you to do," Demerest instructed her, "is go back and locate
  this man. See if there's any sign of the bag, and whether there's a good
  chance of getting it away from him. You realize that one of us from here
  can't go back-at least for now-in case we scare him."
  "Yes," Gwen said. "I understand that. But I don't need to go either."
 "Why?"
  She said quietly, "I know where he is already. In seat fourteen-A."
  Vernon Demerest regarded her searchingly. "I don't have to tell you that
  this is important. If you've any doubt, go back and make sure."
 "I haven't any doubt."
  Half an hour or so ago, Gwen explained, after serving dinners in first
  class, she had gone aft into the tourist section to help out there. One
  of the passengers-in a window seat on the left-had been dozing. When Gwen
  spoke to him he awakened instantly. He was nursing a small attach6 case
  on his knees and Gwen sua-,ested that she take it, or that he put it
  down, while having dinner. The passenger refused. He continued to hold
  the case where it was, and she noticed that he clasped it as if it were
  important. Later, instead of letting down the folding table from the back
  of the seat ahead, he used the case. still held on his lap, to support
  his dinner tray. Accustomed to passengers' peculiarities, Gwen thought
  no more of it, though she remembered the man well. The description in the
  message fitted him exactly.
  "Another reason I remember is that he's sitting right alongside the old
  lady stowaway."
 "He's in a window seat, you say?"
 "Yes. 11
  "That makes it harder-to reach across and grab." Demerest was remembering
  the portion of the D.T.M.'s message: IF SUPPOSITION TRUE, LIKELY THAT
  TRIGGER FOR EXPLOSIVES WILL BE ON OUTSIDE OF CASE AND EASILY REACHABLE.
  THEREFORE USE EXTREME CAUTION
 3%           AIRPORT

 IN ATTEMPTING TO SEIZE CASE FORCIBLY. He guessed that Gwen, too, was
 thinking of that warning.
  For the fiist time a feeling, not of fear but doubt, intruded on his
  reasoning. Fear might come later, but not yet. Was there a possibility
  that this bomb scare might prove to be more than a scare? Vernon Demerest
  had thought and talked of this kind of situation often enough, yet could
  never really believe it would happen to himself.
  Anson Harris was easing out of the turn as gently as he had gone into it.
  They were now headed around completely.
  The Selcal chime sounded again. Demerest motioned to Cy Jordan, who
  switched radios and answered, then began copying down a message.
  Anson Harris was talking once more with Toronto Air Route Center.
  "I wonder," Vernon Demerest said to Gwen, "if there's any chance of
  getting those other two passengers alongside Guerrero out of their seats.
  That way he'd be left there, in the three-seat section, on his own. Then
  maybe one of us could come from behind, lean over and grab."
  "He'd suspect," Gwen said emphatically. "I'm sure he would. He's edgy
  now. The moment we got those other people out, whatever excuse we used,
  he'd know something was wrong and he'd be watching and waiting."
  The second officer passed over the Selcal message he had been copying.
  It was from D.T.M. Lincoln. Using the hooded light, Gwen and Demerest
  read it together.

  NEW INFORMATION INDICATES EARLIER POSSIBILITY OF EXPLOSIVE DEVICE IN
  POSSESSION OF PASSENGER GUERRERO IS NOW STRONG PROBABILITY REPEAT
  STRONG PROBABILITY. PASSENGER BELIEVED MENTALLY DISTURBED, DESPERATE.
  REPEAT PREVIOUS WARNING TO APPROACH WITH EXTREME CAUTION. GOOD LUCK.

  "I like that last bit," Cy Jordan said. "That's real nice, wishing us
  that."
             AIRPORT           397

 Dernerest said brusquely, "Shut up!"
  For several seconds-apart from routine flight deck sounds-there was
  silence.
  "If there were some way," Dernerest said slowly, some way we could trick
  him into letting go of that case. AR we'd need would be a few seconds to
  have our hands on it, then get it clear away . if we were quick, two
  seconds would be enough."
 Gwen pointed out, "He wouldn't even put it down . . .
  "I know! I know! I'm thinking, that's all." He stopped. "Let's go over
  it again. There are two passengers between Guerrero and the aisle. One
  of them . . ."
  "One of them is a man; he has the aisle seat. In the middle is the old
  lady, Mrs. Quonsett. Then Guerrero."
  "So grandma's right beside Guerrero; right alongside the case."
  "Yes, but how does it help? Even if we could let her know, she couldn't
  possibly
  Dernerest said sharply, "You haven't said anything to her yet? She
  doesn't know we're on to her?"
 "No. You told me not to."
 "Just wanted to be sure."
  Again they were silent. Vernon Dernerest concentrated, thinking, weighing
  possibilities. At length he said carefully, "I have an idea. It may not
  work, but at the moment it's the best we have. Now listen, while I tell
  you exactly what to do."

  In the tourist section of Flight Two most passengers had finished dinner,
  and stewardesses were briskly removing trays. The meal service had gone
  faster than usual tonight. One reason was that due to the delayed
  takeoff, some passengers had eaten in the terminal and now, because of
  the lateness of the hour, they had either declined dinner or merely
  nibbled at it.
  At the three-seat unit where Mrs. Ada Quonsett was still chatting with
  her new friend, the oboe player, one of the tourist cabin stewardesses-a
  pert young blonde -asked, "Have you finished with your trays?"
 "Yes, I have, miss," the oboist said.
 398          AIRPORT

  Mrs. Quonsett smiled warmly. "Thank you, my dear; you may take mine. It
  was very nice."
  The dour man on Mrs. Quonsett's left surrendered his tray without
  comment.
  It was only then that the little old lady from San Diego became aware of
  the other stewardess standing in the aisle.
  She was one whom Mrs. Quonsett had observed several times previously, and
  appeared to be in charge of the other girls. She had deep black hair, an
  attractive, high-cheekboned face, and strong dark eyes which at the
  moment were focused, directly and coolly, on Ada Quonsett.
 "Pardon me, madam. May I see your ticket?"
  "My ticket? Why, of course." Mrs. Quonsett affected surprise, though she
  guessed immediately what lay behind the request. Obviously her stowaway
  status was either suspected or known. But she had never given up easily,
  and even now her wits were working. A question was: how much did this
  girl know?
  Mrs. Quonsett opened her purse and pretended to search among its papers.
  "I know I had it, my dear. It must be here somewhere." She glanced up,
  her expression innocent. "That is, unless the ticket man took it when I
  came aboard. Perhaps he kept it and I didn't notice."
  "No," Gwen Meighen said, "he wouldn't have. If it was a round-trip
  ticket, you'd be holding a return flight coupon. And if it was one-way,
  you'd still have the ticket stub and boarding folder."
  "Well, it certainly seems strangeMrs. Quonsett
 continued fumbling in her purse.
  Gwen inquired coldly, "Shall I look?" From the beginning of their
  exchange, she had shown none of her customary friendliness. She added,
  "If there's a ticket in Your purse, I'll find it. If there isn't, it will
  save us both wasting time."
  "Certainly not," Mrs. Ouonsett said severely. Then, relenting: "I realize
  you mean no harm, my dear, but I have private papers here. You, being
  English, should respect privacy. You are English, aren't you?"
              AIRPORT ~        399

  "Whether I am or not doesn't matter. At this moment we're talking about
  your ticket. That is, if you have one." Gwen's voice, pitched louder than
  usual, was audible several seats away. Heads of other passengers were
  turning.
  "Oh, I have a ticket. It's just a question of where it is." Mrs. Quonsett
  smiled engagingly. "About your being English, though, I could tell you were
  from the very first moment you spoke. So many English people -people like
  you, my dear-make our language sound delightful. It's such a pity so few of
  us Americans can do the same. My late husband always used to say . . .' :
 "Never mind what he said. What about your tickeff
  It was hard for Gwen to be as rude and unpleasant as she was being. In the
  ordinary way she would have dealt with this old woman firmly, yet remained
  friendly and good-natured; Gwen also had a reluctance to bully someone more
  than twice her own age. But before she left the flight deck, Vernon had
  been explicit in his instructions.
  Mrs. Ouonsett looked a little shocked. "I'm being patient with you, young
  lady. But when I do discover my ticket I shall certainly have something to
  say about your attitude . . ."
  "Will you really, Mrs. Quonsett?" Gwen saw the old woman start at the use
  of her name, and for the first time there was a weakening behind the prim
  faqade. Gwen persisted, "You are Ada Quonsett, aren't you?"
  The little old lady patted her lips with a lace handkerchief, then sighed.
  "Since you know I am, there's no point in denying it, is there?"
  "No, because we know all about you. You've got quite a record, Mrs.
  Quonsett."
  More passengers were watching and listening now; one or two had left their
  seats to move closer. Their expressions were sympathetic for the old lady,
  critical of Gwen. The man in the aisle seat, who had been talking with Mrs.
  Quonsett when Gwen arrived, shifted uncomfortably. "If there's some
  misunderstanding, perhaps I can help. . ."
 400          AIRPORT

  "There's no misunderstanding," Gwen said. "Are you traveling with this
  lady?"
 "No. 11

  "Then there's nothing you need concern yourself about, sir."
  So far, Gwen had not let herself look directly at the man seated farthest
  away, by the window, whom she knew to be Guerrero. Nor had he looked at
  her, though she could tell by the inclination of his head that he was
  listening intently to everything that was being said. Also without being
  obvious, she observed that be was still clasping the small attach6 case
  on his knees. At the thought of what the case might contain she
  experienced a sudden, icy fear. She felt herself tremble, with a pre-
  monition of something terrible to come. She wanted to run, return to the
  flight deck and tell Vernon to handle this himself. But she didn't, and
  the moment of weakness passed.
  "I said we know all about you, and we do," Gwen assured Mrs. Quonsett.
  "You were caught earlier today as a stowaway on one of our flights from
  Los Angeles. You were placed in custody, but you managed to slip away.
  Then, by lying, you got aboard this flight."
  The little old lady from San Diego said brightly, "If you know so much,
  or think you do, it won't do any good arguing about it." Well, she
  decided, it was no good worrying now. After all, she had expected to get
  caught; at least she hadn't been until she'd had an adventure and a good
  dinner. Besides, what did it matter? As the redheaded woman back at
  Lincoln admitted, airlines never prosecuted stowaways.
  She was curious, though, about what came next. "Are we going to turn
  back?"
  "You're not that important. When we land in Italy you'll be banded over
  to the authorities." Vernon Demerest had warned Gwen to let it be thought
  that Flight Two was proceeding on to Rome, certainly not to admit that
  they were already turned around and heading back. He also impressed on
  her that she must be rough with the old lady, which Gwen had not enjoyed.
  But it was necessary to make an impression on the passenger Guerrero, to
  carry out Demerest's next step.
             AIRPORT           401

  Though Guerrero didn't know it-and if all went well, he would not know
  until too late to make any difference-this entire performance was solely
  for his benefit.
  "You're to come with me," Gwen instructed Mrs. Quonsett. "The captain has
  had a signal about you, and he has to make a report. Before he does, he
  wants to see you." She asked the man in the aisle seat, "Will you let
  this woman out, please?"
  For the first time the old lady looked nervous. "The captain wants me?"
 "Yes, and he doesn't like to be kept waiting."
  Hesitantly, Mrs. Quonsett released her seat belt. As the oboe player
  moved out, unhappily, to let her pass, she stepped uncertainly into the
  aisle. Taking her arm, Gwen propelled her for-ward, conscious of hostile
  glances atl around-directed at herself-as they went.
  Gwen resisted an impulse to turn, to see if the man with the case was
  watching too.
  "I'm Captain Demerest," Vernon Demerest said. "Please come in-as far
  for-ward as you can. Gwen, shut the door and let's see if we can squeeze
  everybody in." He smiled at Mrs. Quonsett. "I'm afraid they don't design
  flight decks for entertaining visitors."
  The old lady from San Diego peered toward him. After the bright lights
  of the passenger cabin from which she had just come, her eyes were not
  yet adjusted to the cockpit's semidarkness. All she could make out were
  shadowy figures, seated, surrounded by dozens of redly glowing dials. But
  there had been no mistaking the friendliness of the voice. Its effect and
  tone were far different from what she had braced herself to expec*t.
  Cy Jordan pushed an armrest upward on an empty crew seat behind Anson
  Harris. Gwen-gently, in contrast to her behavior of a few minutes
  ago-guided the old lady into the seat.
  There was still no turbulence outside, which made it easy to move around.
  Though losing height, they were still far above the storm, and despite
  the airplane's speed of rnore than five hundred miles an hour, it was
  riding easily as if on a calm, untroubled sea.
 "Mrs. Quonsett," Vernon Demerest said, "whatever
 402          AIRPORT

 happened outside just now, you can forget it. It's not the reason you were
 brought here." He asked Gwen, "Were you pretty rough with her?"
 "I'm afraid so."
  "Miss Meighen was acting on my orders. I told her to do exactly what she
  did. We knew one particular person would be watching and listening. We
  wanted it to look good, to have a plausible reason for bringing you here."
  The big shadowy figure speaking from the right-hand seat was becoming
  clearer to Ada Quonsett now. From what she could see of his face, he seemed
  a kind man, she thought. At the moment, of course, she had no idea what he
  was talking about. She looked about her. It was all very interesting. She
  had never been on a ffight deck before. It was much more crowded and a
  smaller space than she expected. It was also warm, and the three men whom
  she could now see were all in shirtsleeves. This would certainly be
  something else to tell her daughter in New York-if she ever got there.
  "Grandma," the man who had introduced himself as the captain said, "do you
  get frightened easily?"
  It seemed an odd question, and she thought about it before answering. "Not
  easily, I think. I get nervous sometimes, though not as much as I used to.
  When you get older there isn't a lot left to be frightened of."
  The captain's eyes were fixed searchingly on her fare. "I've decided to
  tell you something, then ask for your help. We don't have too much time, so
  I'll make it fast. I suppose you've noticed the man sitting next to you,
  back in the cabin-on the window side."
 "The skinny one, with the little mustache?"
 "Yes," Gwen said. "That's him."
  Mrs. Quonsett nodded. "He's a strange one. He won't talk to anybody, and he
  has a little case with him that he won't let go of. I think he's worried
  about something."
  "We're worried, too," Vernon Demerest said quietly. "We've reason to
  believe that in that case he has a bomb. We want to get it away from him.
  That's why I need your help."
  One of the surprising things about being up here with the pilots, Ada
  Quonsett thought, was how quiet it was.
              AIRPORT          403

 In the silence which followed what had just been said, she could hear a
 message coming in on an overhead speaker near where she was seated. "Trans
 America Two, this is Toronto Center. Your position is fifteen mdes east
 of KJeinburg beacon. Advise your flight level and intentions."
  The man in the other front seat, on the left, whose face she hadn't yet
  seen, was answering. "Toronto Center from Trans America Two. Leaving
  flight level two niner zero. Request continued slow descent until we
  advise. No change in our intentions to return for landing at Lincoln."
  "Roger, Trans America. We are clearing traffic ahead of you. You may
  continue slow descent."
  A third man, at a little table to her right, facing still more dials,
  leaned across to the one who had been speaking. "I make it an hour and
  seventeen minutes in. That's using forecast winds, but if the front's
  moved faster than expected, it could be less."
  "We are going back, aren't we?" Mrs. Quonsett found it hard to restrain
  the excitement in her voice.
  Demerest nodded. "But you're the only one who knows, besides ourselves.
  For the time being you must keep it a secret, and above all,
  Guerrero-that's the man with the case-mustn't find out."
  Ada Ouonsett thought breathlessly: was this really happening to her? It
  was all quite thrilling, like something on TV. It was a little
  frightening perhaps, but she decided not to think too much about that.
  The main thing was-she was here, a part of it all, hobnobbing with the
  captain, sharing secrets, and what would her daughter say about that?
 "Well, will you help us?"
  "Oh, of course. I expect you want me to see if I can get that case away
  . , ."
  "No!" Vernon Demerest swung farther around, leaning over the back of his
  seat for emphasis. He said sternly, "You must not so much as put your
  hands on that case, or even near it."
  "If you say so," Mrs. Quonsett acknowledged meekly, "I won't."
 "I do say so. And remember, it's important that
 404          AIRPORT

 Guerrero have no idea we know about his case or what's inside. Now, as I
 did with Miss Meighen a little while ago, I'm going to tell you exactly
 what to do when you go back to the cabin. Please listen carefully."
  When he had finished, the little old lady from San Diego permitted
  herself a small, brief smile. "Oh, yes; yes, I think I can do that."
  She was getting out of her seat, with Gwen about to open the flight deck
  door for them to go, when Demerest asked, "That flight from Los Angeles
  you stowed away on-they said you were trying to reach New York. Why?"
  She told him about being lonely sometimes on the West coast, and wanting
  to visit her married daughter in the east.
  "Grandma," Vernon Dernerest said, "if we pull this off I'll personally
  guarantee that not only will any trouble you're in be taken care of, but
  this airline will give you a ticket to New York, and back, first class."
 Mrs. Quonsett was so touched, she almost cried.
  "Oh, thank you! Thank you!" For once she found it hard to speak. What a
  remarkable man, she thought; such a kind, dear man!

  Her genuine emotion as she was about to leave the flight deck helped Mrs.
  Quonsett in her progress through the first class compartment and then
  into the tourist cabin. With Gwen Meighen grasping her arm tightly and
  shoving her along, the old lady dabbed at her eyes with her lace
  handkerchief, giving a tearful, credible performance of acute distress.
  She reminded herself, almost gleefully beneath her tears, that it was her
  second performance tonight..The first, when she pretended to be ill, had
  been staged in the terminal for the young passenger agent, Peter Coakley.
  She had been convincing then, so why not now?
  The performance was sufficiently authentic for one passenger to ask Gwen
  heatedly, "Miss, whatever she's done, do you have to be so rough?"
 Gwen replied tartly, already aware that she was
             AIRPORT           405

 within hearing of the man Guerrero, "Sir, please don't interfere."
  As they passed into the tourist cabin, Gwen closed the draw curtain in the
  door-way separating the two passenger sections. That was part of Vernon's
  plan. Looking back the way they had come, toward the front of the aircraft,
  Gwen could see the flight deck door slightly ajar. Behind it, she knew,
  Vernon was waiting, watching. As soon as the curtain between first class
  and tourist was closed, Vernon would move aft and stand behind it, watching
  through a chink which Gwen was careful to leave open. Then, when the proper
  moment came, he would fling the curtain aside and rush through swiftly.
  At the thought of what was going to happen within the next few
  minutes-whatever the outcome-once more an icy fear, a sense of premonition,
  came to Gwen. Once more she conquered it. Reminding herself of her
  responsibilities to the crew, and to the other passengers-who were
  oblivious of the drama being played out in their midst-she escorted Mrs.
  Quonsett the remaining distance to her seat.
  The passenger Guerrero glanced up quickly, then away. The small attach6
  case, Gwen saw, was still in the same position on his knees, his hands
  holding it. The man from the aisle seat next to Mrs. Quonsett's-the oboe
  player-stood up as they approached. His expression sympathetic, he moved
  out to let the old lady in. Unobtrusively, Gwen moved in front of him,
  blocking his return. The aisle seat must remain unoccupied until Gwen moved
  out of the way. Gwen's eyes caught a flicker of movement through the chink
  she had left in the doorway curtain. Vernon Demerest was in position and
  ready.
  "Please!" Still standing in the aisle, Mrs. Ouonsett turned pleadingly,
  tearfully to Gwen. "I beg of youask the captain to reconsider. I don't want
  to be handed over to the Italian police . . ."
  Gwen said harshly, "You should have thought of that before. Besides, I
  don't tell the captain what to do."
 "But you can ask him! He'll listen to you."
 406          AIRPORT

  D. 0. Guerrero turned his head, took in the scene, then looked away.
  Gwen seized the old lady's arm. "I'm telling you-get into that seat!"
  Ada Quonsett's voice became a wail. "All I'm asking is to be taken back.
  Hand me over there, not in a strange country!"
  From behind Gwen the oboe player protested, "Miss, can't you see the
  lady's upset?"
  Gwen snapped, "Please keep out of this. This woman has no business here
  at all. She's a stowaway."
  The oboist said indignantly, "I don't care what she is. She's still an
  old lady."
  Ignoring him, Gwen gave Mrs. Quonsett a shove which sent her staggering.
  "You heard me! Sit down and be quiet."
  Ada Quonsett dropped into her seat. She screamed, "You hurt me! You hurt
  me!"
 Several passengers were on their feet, protesting.
  D. 0. Guerrero continued to look straight ahead. His hands, Gwen saw,
  were still on the attacb6 case.
 Mrs. Quonsett wailed again.
  Gwen said coldly, "You're hysterical." Deliberately, hating what she had
  to do, she leaned into the section of seats and slapped Mrs. Quonsett
  hard across the face. The slap resounded through the cabin. Passengers
  gasped. Two other stewardesses appeared incredulous. The oboist seized
  Gwen's arm; hastily she shook herself free.
  What happened next occurred so swiftly that even those closest to the
  scene were uncertain of the sequence of events.
  Mrs. Quonsett, in her seat, turned to D. 0. Guerrero on her left. She
  appealed to him, "Sir, please help mel Help me!"
 His features rigid, he ignored her.
  Apparently overcome by grief and fear, she reached toward him, flinging
  her arms hystericafly around his neck. "Please, please!"
 Guerrero twisted his body away, trying to release
              AIRPORT          407

 himself. He failed. Instead, Ada Quonsett wound her arms around his neck
 more tightly. "Oh, help me!"
  Red-faced and close to choking, D. 0. Guerrero put up both hands to
  wrench her away. As if in supplication, Ada Quonsett eased her grasp and
  seized his hands.
  At the same instant, Gwen Meighen leaned forward toward the inside seat.
  She reached out and in a single even movement-almost without haste-she
  grasped the attach6 case firmly and removed it from Guerrero's knees. A
  moment later the case was free and in the aisle. Between Guerrero and the
  case, Gwen and Ada Quonsett were a solid barrier.
  The curtain across the doorway from the first class cabin swept open.
  Vernon Demerest, tall and impressive in uniform, hurried through.
  His face showing relief, he held out his hand for the attach6 case. "Nice
  going, Gwen. Let me have it."
  With ordinary luck the incident---except for dealing with Guerrero
  later-would have ended there. That it did not was solely due to Marcus
  Rathbone.
  Rathbone, until that moment, was an unknown, unconsidered passenger,
  occupying seat fourteen-D across the aisle. Although others were unaware
  of him, he was a self-important, pompous man, constantly aware of
  himself.
  In the small Iowa town where he lived he was a minor merchant, known to
  his neighbors as a "knocker." Whatever others in his community did or
  proposed, Marcus Rathbone objected to. His objections, small and large,
  were legendary. They included the choice of books in the local library,
  a plan for a community antennae system, the needed disciplining of his
  son at school, and the color of paint for a civic building. Shortly
  before departing on his present trip he had organized the defeat of a
  proposed sign ordinance which would have beautified his town's main
  street. Despite his habitual "knocking," be had never been known to pro-
  pose a constructive idea.
  Another peculiarity was that Marcus Rathbone despised women, including
  his own wife. None of his ob-
   408          AIRPORT

 jections had ever been on their behalf. Consequently, the humiliation of
 Mrs. Ouonsett a moment earlier had not disturbed him, but Gwen Meighen's
 seizure of D. 0. Guerrero's attachd case did.
  To Marcus Rathbone this was officialdom in uniform -and a woman at
  thad-impinging on the rights of an ordinary traveler like himself.
  Indignantly, Rathbone rose from his seat, interposing himself between
  Gwen and Vernon Demerest.
  At the same instant, D. 0. Guerrero, flushed and mouthing incoherent
  words, scrambled free from his seat and the grasp of Ada Quonsett. As he
  reached the aisle, Marcus Rathbone seized the case from Gwen and -with
  a polite bow-held it out. Like a wild animal, with madness in his eyes,
  Guerrero grabbed it.
  Vernon Demerest flung himself forward, but too late. He tried to reach
  Guerrero, but the narrowness of the aisle and the intervening
  figures-Gwen, Rathbone, the oboe player-defeated him. D. 0. Guerrero had
  ducked around the others and was heading for the aircraft's rear. Other
  passengers, in seats, were scrambling to their feet. Demerest shouted
  desperately, "Stop that man! He has a bomb!"
  The shout produced screams, and an exodus from seats which had the effect
  of blocking the aisle still further. Only Gwen Meighen, scrambling,
  pushing, clawing her way aft, managed to stay close to Guerrero.
  At the end of the cabin-like an animal still, but this time
  comered-Guerrero turned. All that remained between him and the aircraft's
  tail were three rear toilets; light indicators showed that two were
  empty, one was occupied. His back to the toilets, Guerrero held the
  attach6 case forward in front of him, one hand on its carrying handle,
  the other on a loop of string now visible beneath the handle. In a
  strained voice, somewhere between a whisper and a snarl, he warned, "Stay
  where you are! Don't come closer!"
  Above the heads of the others, Vernon Demerest shouted again. "Guerrero
  ' listen to me! Do you hear me? Listen!"
 There was a second's silence in which no one moved,
              AIRPORT          409

 the on1v sound the steady background whine of the plane's jet engines.
 Guerrero blinked, continuing to face the others, his eyes -roving and
 suspicious.
  "We know who you are," Demerest called out, "and we know what you
  intended. We know about the insurance and the bomb, and they know on the
  ground, too, so it means your insurance is no good. Do you under-
  stand?--your insurance is invalid, canceled, worthless. If you let off
  that bomb you'll kill yourself for nothing. No one--least of all your
  family-will gain. In fact, your family will lose because they'll be
  blamed and hounded. Listen to me! Think."
 A woman screamed. Still Guerrero hesitated.
  Vernon Dernerest urged, "Guerrero, let these people sit down. Then, if
  you like, we'll talk. You can ask me questions. I promise that until
  you're ready, no one will come close." Dernerest was calculating: If
  Guerrero's attention could be held long enough, the aisle might be
  cleared. After that, Dernerest would try to persuade Guerrero to hand
  over the case. If he refused, there was still a chance that Demerest
  could leap forward, throw himself bodily onto Guerrero and wrest the case
  free before the trigger could be used. It would be a tremendous risk, but
  there was nothing better.
 People were easing nervously back into their seats.
  "Now that I've told you what we know, Guerrero; now you know that it
  isn't any good going on, I'm asking you to give me that case." Dernerest
  tried to keep his tone reasonable, sensing it was important to keep
  talking. "If you do as I say, I give you my solemn word that no one in
  this airplane will harm you."
  D. 0. Guerrero's eyes mirrored fear. He moistened thin lips with his
  tongue. Gwen Meighen was closest to him.
  Dernerest said quietly, "Gwen, take it easy. Try to get in a seat," If
  he had to leap, he wanted no one in the way.
  Behind Guerrero the door of the occupied toflet opened. An owlish young
  man with thick glasses came out. He stopped, peering short-siglitedly.
  Obviously he had heard nothing of what was going on.
 410          AIRPORT

  Another passenger yelled, "Grab the guy with the case! He's got a bomb!"
  At the first "click" of the toilet door, Guerrero half turned. Now he
  lunged, thrusting the man with glasses aside, and entered the toilet which
  the newcomer had vacated.
  As Guerrero moved, Gwen Meigben moved too, remaining close behind him.
  Vernon Demerest, several yards away, was struggling fiercely aft, down the
  still crowded aisle.
  The toilet door was closing as Gwen reached it. She thrust a foot inside
  and shoved. Her foot stopped the door from closing, but the door refused to
  move. Despairing, as pain shot through her foot, she could feel Guerrero's
  weight against the other side.
  In D. 0. Guerrero's mind the last few minutes bad been a jumbled blur. He
  had not fully comprehended everything that had occurred, nor had he heard
  all that Demerest said. But one thing penetrated. He realized that like ~-
  many of his other grand designs, this one, too, had failed. Somewhere-as
  always happened with whatever he attempted-he had bungled. All his life had
  been a failure. With bitterness, he knew his death would be a failure too.
  His back was braced against the inside of the toilet door. He felt pressure
  on it, and knew that at any moment the pressure would increase so that be
  could no longer hold the door closed. Desperately be fumbled with the
  attach6 case, reaching for the string beneath the handle which would
  release the square of plastic, actuating the clothespin switch and
  detonating the dynamite inside. Even as he found the string and tugged, he
  wondered if the bomb be had made would be a failure also.
  In his last split second of life and comprehension, D. 0. Guerrero learned
  that it was not.
              AIRPORT          411

               10

 The explosion aboard Trans America Flight Two, The Golden Aryosy, was
 instantaneous, monstrous, and overwhelming. In the airplane's confined
 space it struck with the din of a hundred thunderclaps, a sheet of flame,
 and a blow like a giant sledge hammer.
  D. 0. Guerrero died instantly, his body, near the core of the explosion,
  disintegrating utterly. One moment he existed; the next, there were only
  a few small, bloody pieces of him left.
 The aircraft fuselage blew open.
  Gwen Meighen, who, next to Guerrero, was nearest the explosion, received
  its force in her face and chest.
  An instant after the dynamite charge ripped the aircraft skin, the cabin
  decompressed. With a second roar and tornado force, air inside the
  aircraft-until this moment maintained at normal pressure-swept through
  the ruptured fuselage to dissipate in the high altitude near-vacuum
  outside. Through the passenger cabins a dark engulfing cloud of dust
  surged toward the rear. With it, like litter in a maelstrom, went every
  loose object, light and heavy-papers, food trays, liquor bottles,
  coffeepots, hand luggage, clothing, passengers' belongings-atl whirling
  through the air as if impelled toward a cyclopean vacuum cleaner.
  Curtains tore away. Internal doors-flight deck, storage, and toilets
  -wrenched free from locks and hinges and were swept rearward with the
  rest,
  Several passengers were struck. Others, not strapped in their seats,
  clung to any handhold as the wind and suction drew them inexorably toward
  the rear.
  Throughout the aircraft, emergency compartments above each seat snapped
  open. Yellow oxygen masks came tumbling down, each mask connected by a
  short plastic tube to a central oxygen supply.
 Abruptly the suction lessened. The aircraft's interior
 412          AIRPORT

 was filled with mist and a savage, biting cold. Noise from engines and wind
 was overwhelming.
  Vernon Demerest, still in the aisle of the tourist cabin where he had held
  himself by instinctively seizing a seatback, roared, "Get on oxygen!" He
  grabbed a mask himself.
  Through knowledge and training, Demerest realized what most others did not:
  The air inside the cabin was now as rarefied as that outside, and
  insufficient to support life. Only fifteen seconds of full consciousness
  remained to everyone, unless oxygen was used at once from the aircraft's
  emergency system.
  Even in five seconds, without the aid of oxygen, a degree of lessened
  judgment would occur.
  In another five seconds a state of euphoria would make many decide not to
  bother with oxygen at all. They would lapse into unconsciousness, not
  caring.
  Airlines had long been urged, by those who understood the hazards of
  decompression, to make pre-flight announcements about oxygen equipment more
  definite than they were. Passengers should be told, it was argued: The
  instant an oxygen mask appears in front of you, grab it, stick your face
  into it, and ask questions after. If there is a real decompression, you
  haven't a single second to spare. If it's a false alarm, you can always
  take the mask ojff later; meanwhile it will do no harm.
  Pilots who took decompression tests were given a simple demonstration of
  the effect of oxygen lack at high altitudes. In a decompression tank, with
  an oxygen mask on, they were told to begin writing their signatures, and
  part way through the exercise their masks were removed. The signatures
  tailed off into a scrawl, or nothingness. Before unconsciousness occurred,
  the masks were put back on.
  The pilots found it hard to believe what they saw on the page before them.
  Yet airtine managements, theorizing that more definite oxygen advice might
  create alarm among passengers, persisted in the use of innocuous flight an-
  nouncements only. Smiling stewardesses, seeming either
             AIRPORT           413

 bored or amused, casually demonstrated the equipment while an unseen
 voice-hurrying to get finished before takeoff-parroted phrases like: In
 the unlikely event . . . and . . . Government regulations require that we
 inform you. No mention was ever made of urgency, should the equipment be
 required for use.
  As a result, passengers became as indifferent to emergency oxygen
  facilities as airlines and their staffs appeared to be. The overhead
  boxes and monotonous, always-alike demonstrations were (passengers rea-
  soned) something dreamed up by a bunch of regulation-obsessed civil
  servants. (Yawn!) Obviously the whole thing was largely a charade,
  insisted on by the same kind of people who collected income taxes and
  disallowed expense accounts. So what the hell!
  Occasionally, on regular flights, oxygen mask housings opened
  accidentally, and masks dropped down in front of passengers. When this
  happened, most passengers stared curiously at the masks but made no
  attempt to put them on. Precisely that reaction-though the emergency was
  real-had occurred aboard Flight Two.
  Vernon Dernerest saw the reaction and in a flash of sudden anger
  remembered his own, and other pilots', criticisms of soft-pedaled oxygen
  announcements. But there was no time to shout another warning, nor even
  to think of Gwen, who might be dead or dying only a few feet away.
  Only one thing mattered: somehow to get back to the flight deck, and help
  save the airplane if he could.
  Breathing oxygen deeply, he planned his movement forward in the aircraft.
  Above every seat section in the tourist cabin, four oxygen masks had
  dropped-one for the occupant of each seat, plus a spare to be grabbed if
  necessary by anyone standing in the aisle. It was one of the spares which
  Demerest had seized and was using.
  But to reach the flight deck he must abandon this mask and use a portable
  one that would permit him to move forward freely.
  He knew that two portable oxygen cylinders were stowed, farther forward,
  in an overhead rack near the
 414          AIRPORT

 first class cabin bulkhead. If be could make it to the portable cylinders,
 either one would sustain him for the remaining distance from the bulkhead to
 the flight deck.
  He moved for-ward to the bulkhead one seat section at a time, using one
  spare hanging mask after another as he went.
  A couple of seat sections ahead, he could see that aff four masks were
  being used by seated passengers; the three seat occupants, including a
  teen-age girl, had one mask each; the fourth mask was being held by the
  teenager over the face of an infant on its mother's lap alongside. The girl
  seemed to have taken charge and was motioning to others near her what to
  do. Demerest swung toward the opposite side of the cabin, saw a spare mask
  hanging, and taking a deep breath of oxygen, he let go the one he had and
  reached for the other spare. He made it, and breathed deeply once again. He
  still had more than half the tourist cabin length to go.
  He had made one more move when he felt the aircraft roll sharply to the
  right, then dive steeply down.
  Demerest hung on. He knew that, for the moment, there was nothing he could
  do. What happened next was dependent on two things: how much damage the
  explosion had done, and the skill of Anson Harris, at the flight controls,
  alone.

  On the flight deck, the events of the last few seconds had occurred with
  even less warning than at the rear. After the departure of Gwen Meighen and
  Mrs. Quonsett, followed by Vernon Demerest, the two remaining crew
  members-Anson Harris and Second Officer Cy Jordan-had no knowledge of what
  was going on in the passenger cabins behind them until the dynamite blast
  rocked the aircraft, followed an instant later by explosive decompression.
  As in the passenger compartments, the cockpit filled with a thick, dark
  cloud of dust, almost immediately sucked out as the flight deck door
  smashed free from its lock and hinges, and flew outward. Everything loose
  on the flight deck was snatched up, to be carried back, joining the
  debris-laden whirlwind.
             AIRPORT           415

  Under the flight engineer's table, a warning born began blaring
  intermittently. Over both front seats, bright yellow lights flashed on.
  Both born and lights were signals of dangerously low pressure.
  A fine mist-deathly cold-replaced the cloud of dust. Anson Harris felt
  his eardrums tighten painfully.
  But even before that, he had reacted instantly-the effect of training and
  experience of many years.
  On the long, uphill road to airline captaincy, pilots spent arduous hours
  in classrooms and simulators, studying and practicing airborne
  situations, both normal and emergency. The objective was to instill
  quick, correct reactions at all times.
  The simulators were located at important air bases and all major
  scheduled airlines had them.
  From outside, a simulator looked like the nose of an aircraft, with the
  rest of the fuselage chopped off; inside, was everything included in a
  normal flight deck.
  Once inside a simulator, pilots remained shut up for hours, imitating the
  precise conditions of a long distance flight. The effect, when the
  outside door was closed, was uncanny; even motion and noise were present,
  creating the physical effect of being airborne. All other conditions
  paralleled reality. A screen beyond the for-ward windows could conjure
  up airports and runways, enlarging or receding to simulate takeoff and
  landing. The only difference between a simulator flight deck and a
  genuine one was that the simulator never left the ground.
  Pilots in a simulator conversed with a nearby control room, as they would
  on radio in the air. Within the control room, skilled operators
  duplicated air traffic control procedures and other flight conditions.
  The operators could also feed in adverse situations, without warning, to
  pilots. These ranged through multiple engine failure, to fire, violent
  weather, electrical and fuel problems, explosive decompression,
  instrument malfunction, and other assorted unpleasantness. Even a crash
  could be reproduced; sometimes simulators were used in reverse to find
  out what bad caused one.
  Occasionally an operator would feed in several emergencies at once,
  causing pilots to emerge later, ex-
   416          AIRPORT

 hausted and sweat-drenched. Most pilots coped with such tests; the few who
 didn't had the fact noted in their records, were re-examined, and
 afterward watched carefully. The simulator sessions continued, several
 times a year, through every stage of a pilot's career until retirement.
  The result was: When a real emergency occurred, airline pilots knew
  exactly what to do, and did it, without fumbling or loss of precious
  time. It was one of many factors which made travel by scheduled airlines
  the safest means of transportation in human history. It had also
  conditioned Anson Harris to instant action, directed toward the salvation
  of Flight Two.
  In the drill for explosive decompression one rule was fundamental: the
  crew took care of themselves first. Vernon Demerest observed the rule;
  so did Anson Harris and Cy Jordan.
  They must be on oxygen at once---even ahead of passengers. Then, with
  full mental faculties assured, decisions could be made.
  Behind each pilot's seat a quick-don oxygen maskresembling a baseball
  catcher's mask-was hanging. As he had practiced countless times, Harris
  ripped off his radio headset, then reached over his shoulder for the
  mask. He tugged, so that a holding clip snapped open, and slapped the
  mask on. As well as a connection to the airplane's oxygen supply, it
  contained a microphone. For listening, now his headset was removed,
  Harris changed a selector, actuating a speaker overhead.
  Behind him, Cy Jordan, with identical swift movements, did the same.
  In another reflex movement, Anson Harris took care of passengers. Cabin
  oxygen systems worked automatically in event of pressure failure; but as
  a precautionin case they didn't-over the pilots' heads was an override
  switch. It ensured positive release of passenger masks and sent oxygen
  flowing into them. Harris flipped the switch.
  He dropped his right hand to the throttles, pulling all four off. Thz
  aircraft slowed.
 It must be slowed still more.
 Left of the throttles was a speed brake handle. Harris
              AIRPORT          417

 pulled it fully ;oward him. Along the top surface of both wings, spoilers
 rose up, inducing drag, and causing further slowing.
 Cy Jordan silenced the warning horn.
  So far, all procedures had been automatic. Now, a moment for decision had
  arrived.
  It was essential that the aircraft seek a safer altitude below. From its
  present height of twenty-eight thousand feet, it must descend some three
  and a half miles to where the air was denser so that passengers and crew
  could breathe and survive without supplemental oxygen.
  The decision Harris had to make was-should the descent be slow, or a
  high-speed dive?
  Until the past year or two, the instruction to pilots in event of
  explosive decompression was: dive immediately. Tragically, however, the
  instruction had resulted in at least one aircraft breaking apart when a
  slower descent might have saved it. Nowadays, pilots were cautioned:
  Check for structural damage first. If the damage is bad, a dive may
  worsen it, so go down slowly.
  Yet that policy, too, had hazards. To Anson Harris, they were instantly
  apparent.
  Undoubtedly Flight Two bad sustained structural damage. The sudden
  decompression proved it, and the explosion which bad occur-red just
  before-though still less than a minute ago-might already have done great
  harm. In other circumstances, Harr-is would have sent Cy Jordan to the
  rear to learn how bad the damage was, but since Dernerest was gone,
  Jordan must stay.
  But however serious the structural damage, there was another factor,
  perhaps more cogent. The air temperature outside the aircraft was minus
  fifty degrees centigrade. Judging by the near-paralyzing cold which
  Harris felt, the inside temperature must also be near that. In such
  intense cold, no one without protective clothing could survive for more
  than minutes.
  So which was the lesser gamble-to freeze for sure, or take a cbance and
  go down fast?
  Making a decision which only later events could prove right or wrong,
  Harris called on interphone to Cy Jordan, "Warn air traffic control!
  We're diving!"
 At the same moment, Harris banked the aircraft
 418          AIRPORT

 steeply to the right and selected landing gear "down." Banking before the
 dive would have two effects: Passengers or stewardesses who were not
 strapped in seats, or who were standing, would be held where they were by
 centrifugal force; whereas, a straight dive would throw them to the
 ceiling. The turn would also head Flight Two away from the airway they had
 been using, andhopefully-other traffic below.
  Putting the landing gear down would further reduce forward speed, and
  make the dive steeper.
  On the overhead speaker, Harris could hear Cy Jordan's voice intoning a
  distress call. "Mayday, mayday. This is Trans America Two. Explosive
  decompression. We are diving, diving."
  Harris pushed the control yoke hard for-ward. Over his shoulder he
  shouted, "Ask for ten!"
 Cy Jordan added, "Request ten thousand feet."
  Anson Harris clicked a radar transponder switch to seventy-seven-a radar
  S-O-S. Now, on all monitoring screens on the ground, a double blossom
  signal would be seen, confirming both their distress and identity.
  They were going down fast, the altimeter unwinding like a clock with a
  wBd mainspring ... Passing through twenty-six thousand feet . . .
  twenty-four . . . twentythree ... Climb and descent meter showed eight
  thousand feet descent a minute . . . Toronto Air Route Center on the
  overhead speaker: "All altitudes below you are clear. Report your
  intentions when ready. We are standing by." . Harris had eased out of the
  turn, was diving straig
         ,ht ahead ... No time to think about the cold; if they could get
         low enough fast enough, there might be survival-if the aircraft
         held together . . . Already Harris was aware of trouble with
         rudder control and elevators; rudder movement was stiff; stabi-
         lizer trim, not responding ... Twenty-one thousand feet . . .
         twenty . . . nineteen . . . From the feel of the controls, the
         explosion had done damage to the tail; how bad, they would
         discover when he tried to pull out in a minute or less from now.
         It would be the moment of greatest strain. If anything critical
         gave way, they would continue plummeting in . . . Harris would
         have been glad of some help from the right seat, but it was too
         late
             AIRPORT           419

 for Cy Jordan to move there. Besides, the second officer was needed where
 he was-shutting air inlets, throwing in all the beat they had, watching
 for fuel system damage or fire warnings ... Eighteen thousand feet . . .
 seventeen . . . When they reached fourteen thousand, Harris decided, he
 would start pulling out of the dive, hoping to level at ten ... Passing
 through fifteen thousand ... fourteen ... Begin easing out now!
  Controls were heavy, but responding . . . Harris pulled back hard on the
  control yoke. The dive was flattening, control surfaces holding, the
  aircraft coming out ... Twelve thousand feet; descending more slowly now
  ... eleven thousand . . . ten, five ... ten!
  They were level! So far, everything had held together. Here, the normal
  air was breathable and would sustain life, extra oxygen not necessary.
  The outside air temperature gauge showed minus five centigrade-five
  degrees below freezing; still cold, but not the killing cold of altitudes
  above.
  From beginning to end, the dive had taken two and a half minutes.
  The overhead speakers came alive. "Trans America Two, this is Toronto
  Center. How are you doing?"
  Cy Jordan acknowledged. Anson Harris cut in. "Level at ten thousand,
  returning to heading two seven zero. We have structural damage due to
  explosion, extent unknown. Request weather and runway informationToronto,
  Detroit Metropolitan, and Lincoln." In his mind, Harris had an instant
  picture of airports large enough to accommodate the Boeing 707, and with
  the special landing requirements he would need.
  Vernon Demerest was clambering over the smashed flight deck door and
  other debris outside. Hurrying in, he slid into his seat on the fight
  side.
 "We missed you," Harris said.
 "Can we maintain control?"
  Harris nodded. "If the tail doesn't fall off, we may stay lucky." He
  reported the impcded rudder and stabilizer trim. "Somebody let off a
  firecracker back there?"
 "Something
        , like that. It's made a bloody great hole. I didn't stop to
        measure."
 Their casualness, both men knew, was on the surface
 420          AIRPORT

 only. Harris was still steadying the aircraft, seeking an even altitude and
 course. He said considerately, "It was a good scheme, Vernon. It could have
 worked."
  "It could have, but it didn't." Demerest swung around to the second
  officer. "Get back in tourist. Check on damage, report by interphone. Then
  do all you can for the people. We'll need to know how many are hurt, and
  how badly." For the first time he permitted himself an anguished thought.
  "And find out about Gwen."
  The airport reports, which Anson Harris had asked for, were coming in from
  Toronto center: Toronto airport still closed; deep snow and drifts on all
  runways. Detroit Metropolitan-all runways closed to regular traffic, but
  plows will vacate runway three left if essential for emergency approach and
  landing; runway has five to six inches level snow, with ice beneath.
  Detroit visibility, six hundred feet in snow flurries. Lincoln In-
  ternational-all runways plowed and serviceable; runway three zero
  temporarily closed, due to obstruction. Lincoln visibility one mile; wind
  northwest, thirty knots, and gusting.
  Anson Harris told Demerest, "I don't intend to dump fuel."
  Demerest, understanding Harris's reasoning, nodded agreement. Assuming they
  could keep the airplane under control, any landing they made would be
  tricky and heavy, due to the large fuel load which in other circumstances
  would have carried them to Rome. Yet, in their present situation, to dump
  unwanted fuel could be an even greater hazard. The explosion and damage at
  the rear might have set up electrical short circuits, or metal friction,
  which even now could be producing sparks. When dumping fuel in flight, a
  single spark could turn an aircraft into a flaming holocaust. Both captains
  rationalized: better to avoid the fire risk and accept the penalty of a
  difficult landing.
  Yet the same decision meant that a landing at Detroit -the nearest large
  airport-could be attempted only in desperation. Because of their heavy
  weight, they would have to land fast, requiring every available foot of
              AIRPORT          421

 runway and the last ounce of braking power. Runway three left-Detroit
 Metropolitan's longest, which they would need-had ice beneath snow, in the
 circumstances the worst possible combination.
  There was also the unknown factor-wherever Flight Two landed-of how
  limited their control might be, due to rudder and stabilizer trim
  problems, which they already knew about, though not their extent.
  For a landing, Lincoln International offered the best chance of safety.
  But Lincoln was at least an hour's flying time away. Their present
  speed-two hundred and fifty knots-was far slower than they had been
  moving at the higher altitude, and Anson Harris was holding the speed
  down, in the hope of avoiding further structural damage. Unfortunately,
  even that involved a penalty. At their present low level of ten thousand
  feet there was considerable buffeting and turbulence from the storm, now
  all around them instead of far below.
  The crucial question was: Could they remain in the air another hour?
  Despite everything that had happened, less than five minutes had passed
  since the explosion and explosive decompression.
  Air route control was asking again: "Trans America Two, advise your
  intentions."
  Vernon Dernerest replied, requesting a direct course for Detroit while
  the extent of damage was still being checked. Landing intentions, either
  at Detroit Metropolitan or elsewhere, would be notified within the next
  few minutes.
  "Roger, Trans America Two. Detroit has advised they are removing
  snowplows from runway three left. Until informed otherwise, they will
  prepare for an emergency landing."
  The intercom bell chimed and Dernerest answered. It was Cy Jordan calling
  from the rear, shouting to make himself heard above a roar of wind.
  "Captain, there's a great hole back here, about six feet wide behind the
  rear door. Most else around the galley and toilets is a shambles. But as
  far as I can see, everything's holding to-
   422          AIRPORT

 gether. The rudder power boost is blown to hell, but control cables look
 okay."
  "What about control surfaces? Can you see anything?"
  "It looks like the skin is bulged into the stabilizer, which is why the
  stabilizer's jammed. Apart from that, all I can see outside are some
  holes and bad dents, I guess from debris blowing back. But nothing's
  hanging loose-at least, that shows. Most of the blast, I'd say, went
  sideways."
  It was this effect which D. 0. Guerrero had not allowed for. He had
  blundered and miscalculated from the beginning. He bungled the explosion,
  too.
  His greatest error was in failing to recognize that any explosion would
  be drawn outward and would largely dissipate, the moment the hull of a
  pressurized aircraft was pierced. Another error was in not realizing how
  stoutly a modem jetliner was built. In a passenger jet, structural and
  mechanical systems duplicated each other, so that no single malfunction
  or damage should result in destruction of the whole. An airliner could
  be destroyed by a bomb, but only if the bomb were detonated-either by
  plan or chance-in some vulnerable location. Guerrero made no such plan.
  Demerest queried Cy Jordan, "Can we stay in the air an hour?"
  "My guess is, the airplane can. I'm not sure about the passengers."
 "How many are hurt?"
  "I can't say yet. I checked structural damage first, the way you said.
  But things don't look good."
  Dernerest ordered, "Stay there as long as you need to. Do what you can."
  He hesitated, dreading what the answer to his next question might be,
  then asked, "Have you seen any sign of Gwen?" He still didn't know
  whether or not Gwen had been sucked out with the initial blast. In the
  past it had happened to others, including stewardesses who were near the
  site of an explosive decompression, unprotected. And even if that had not
  happened, Gwen had still been closest to the detonated bomb.
              AIRPORT          423

  Cy Jordan answered, "Gwen's here, but in pretty bad shape, I think. We've
  got about three doctors, and they're working on her and the others. I'll
  report when I can."
  Vernon Demerest replaced the interphone. Despite his last question and
  its answer, he was still denying himself the indulgence of private
  thoughts or personal emotion; there would be time for those later.
  Professional decisions, the safety of the air-plane and its complement,
  came first. He repeated to Anson Harris the gist of the second officer's
  report.
  Harris considered, weighing all factors. Vernon Dernerest had still given
  no indication of taking over direct command, and obviously approved of
  Harris's decisions so far, else he would have said so. Now, Demerest ap-
  peared to be leaving the decision about where to land to Harris also.
  Captain Dernerest-even in utmost crisis-was bohaving exactly as a check
  pilot should.
  "We'll try for Lincoln," Harris said. The safety of the aircraft was
  paramount; however bad conditions might be in the passenger cabin, they
  would have to hope that most people could manage to hold on.
  Demerest nodded acknowledgment and began notifying Toronto Center of the
  decision; in a few minutes, Cleveland Center would take them over.
  Demerest requested that Detroit Metropolitan still stand by in case of
  a sudden change of plan, though it wasn't likely. Lincoln International
  was to be alerted that Flight Two would require a straight-in emergency
  approach.
  "Roger, Trans America Two. Detroit and Lincoln are being advised." A
  change of course followed. They were nearing the western shore of Lake
  Huron, the U.S.Canadian border close.
  On the ground, both pilots knew, Flight Two was now the center of
  attention. Controllers and supervisors in contiguous air route centers
  would be working intensely, coordinating removal of all traffic from the
  aircraft's path, sectors ahead warned of their approach, and airways
  cleared. Any request they made would be acted on with first priority.
 424          AIRPORT

  As they crossed the border, Toronto Center signed off, adding to the
  final exchange, "Goodnight and good luck."
  Cleveland Air Route Center responded to their call a moment later.
  Glancing back toward the passenger cabins, through the gap where the
  flight deck door had been, Dernerest could see figures moving-though
  indistinctly, because immediately after the door had gone, Cy Jordan had
  dimmed the first class cabin lights to avoid reflection on the flight
  deck. It appeared, though, as if passengers were being ushered for-ward,
  indicating that someone in the rear had taken charge-presumably Cy
  Jordan, who should be reporting again at any moment. The cold was still
  biting, even on the flight deck; back there it must be colder still. Once
  more, with a second's anguish, Demcrest thought of Gwen, then ruthlessly
  cleared his mind, concentrating on what must be decided next.
  Though only minutes had elapsed since the decision to risk another hour
  in the air, the time to begin planning their approach and landing at
  Lincoln International was now. As Harris continued flying, Vernon
  Demerest selected approach and runway charts and spread them on his
  knees.
  Lincoln International was home base for both pilots, and they knew the
  airport-as well as runways and surrounding airspace-intimately. Safety
  and training, however, required that memory should be supplemented and
  checked.
 The charts confirmed what both already knew.
  For the high speed, heavy weight landing they must execute, the longest
  possible length of runway was required. Because of doubtful rudder
  control, the runway should be the widest, too. It must also be directly
  into wind which-the Lincoln forecast had said-was northwest at thirty
  knots, and gusting. Runway three zero answered all requirements.
 "We need three zero," Demerest said.
  Harris pointed out, "That last report said a temporary closin',Y, due to
  obstruction."
 "I beard," Demerest growled. "The damn runway's
              AIRPORT          425

 been blocked for hours, and all that's in the way is a stuck Mexican jet."
 He folded a Lincoln approach chart and clipped it to his control yoke, then
 exclaimed angrily, "Obstruction heU! We'U give 'ern fifty more minutes to
 pry it loose."
  As Demerest thumbed his mike button to inform air route control, Second
  Officer Cy Jordan-white-faced and shaken-returned to the flight deck.

               11

 In the main terminal of Lincoln International, Lawyer Freemantle was
 puzzled.
  It was most peculiar, he thought, that no one in authority had yet objected
  to the big, increasingly noisy demonstration of Meadowood residents who, at
  this moment, were monopolizing a large segment of the central concourse.
  Earlier this evening, when EUiott Freemantle had asked the Negro police
  lieutenant for permission to hold a public censure meeting, he had been
  firmly refused. Yet here they were, with a curious crowd of spectators -and
  not a policeman in sight!
 Freemantle thought again: it didn't make sense.
 Yet what had happened was incredibly simple.
  After the interview with the airport general manager, Bakersfeld, the
  delegation, led by Elliott Freemantle, had returned from the administrative
  mezzanine to the main concourse. There, the TV crews, whom Freemantle had
  talked with on the way in, had set up their equipment.
  The remaining Meadowood residents-already at least five hundred strong,
  with more coming in-were gathering around the TV activity.
  One of the television men told him, "We're ready if you are, Mr.
  Freemantle."
 426          AIRPORT

  Two TV stations were represented, both planning separate film interviews
  for use tomorrow. With customary shrewdness, Freemantle had already
  inquired which TV shows the film was destined for, so that he could
  conduct himself accordingly. The first inter-view, he learned, was for
  a prime-time, popular show which liked controversy, liveliness, and even
  shock treatment. He was ready to supply all three.
  The TV interviewer, a handsome young man with a Ronald ReaGan haircut,
  asked, "Mr. Freemantle, why are you here?"
 "Because this airport is a den of thieves."
 "Will you explain that?"
  "Certainly. The homeowners of Meadowood community are having thievery
  practiced on them. Thievery of their peace, their right to privacy, of
  their work-eamed rest, and of their sleep. Thievery of enjoyment of their
  leisure; thievery of their mental and physical health, and of their
  children's health and welfare. All these thinas -basic riohts under our
  Constitution-are being shamelessly stolen, without recompense or
  recognition, by the operators of Lincoln Air-port."
  The interviewer opened his mouth to smile, showing two rows of faultless
  teeth. "Counselor, those are fighting words."
  "That's because my clients and I are in a fighting mood."
  "Is that mood because of anything which has happened here tonight?"
  "Yes, sir, We have seen demonstrated the callous indifference of this
  airport's management to my clients' problems."
 "Just what are your plans?"
  "In the courts-if necessary the highest court-we shall now seek closure
  of specific runways, even the entire airport during nighttime hours. In
  Europe, where they're more civilized about these things, Paris airport,
  for example, has a curfew. Failing that, we shall demand proper
  compensation for cruelly wronged homeowners."
              AIRPORT          427

  "I assume that what you're doing at this Moment means you're also seeking
  public support."
 "Yes, sir."
 "Do you believe the public will support you?"
  "If they don't, I invite them to spend twenty-four hours living in
  Meadowood-providing their eardnnns and sanity will stand it."
  "Surely, Counselor, airports have official programs of noise abatement."
  "A sham, sir! A fake! A public lie! The general manager of this airport
  confessed to me tonight that even the paltry, so-called noise abatement
  measures are not being observed."
 And so on.
  Afterward, Elliott Freemantle wondered if he should have qualified the
  statement about noise abatement procedures-as Bakersfeld had done-by
  referring to exceptional conditions of tonight's storm. But serni-truth
  or not, the way he had said it was stronger, and Freemantle doubted if
  it would be challenged. Anyway, he bad given good performailces-in the
  second interview as well as the first. Also during both filmings, the
  cameras panned several times over the intent, expressive faces of the
  assembled Meadowood residents. Elliott Freemantle hoped that when they
  saw themselves on their home screens tomorrow, they would remember who
  had been responsible for all the attention they were receiving.
  The number of Meadowooders who had followed him to the airport-as if he
  were their personal Pied Piper -astonished him. Attendance at the meeting
  in the Sunday school hall at Meadowood had been roughly six hundred. In
  view of the bad night and lateness of the hour, he had thought they would
  be doing well if half that number made the farther trek to the airport;
  but not only did most of the original crowd come; some must have
  telephoned friends and neighbors who bad joined them. He had even had
  requests for more copies of the printed forms retaining himself as legal
  counsel, which he was happy to pass out. Some revised mental arithmetic
  convinced him that his first hope of a fee
 428          AIRPORT

 from Meadowood totaling twenty-five thousand doUars might well be exceeded.
  After the Tv interviews, the Tribune reporter, Tomlinson-who had been
  taking notes during the filming -inquired, "What comes next, Mr.
  Freemantle? Do you intend to stage some kind of demonstration here?"
  Freemantle shook his head. "Unfortunately the management of this airport
  does not believe in free speech, and we have been denied the elementary
  privilege of a public meeting. However"-he indicated the assembled
  Meadowooders-"I do intend to report to these ladies and gentlemen."
 "Isn't that the same thing as a public meeting?"
 "No, it is not."
  Just the same, Elliott Freemantle conceded to himself, it would be a fine
  distinction, especially since he had every intention of turning what
  followed into a public demonstration if he could. His objective was to get
  started with an aggressive speech, which the airport police would dutifully
  order him to stop. Freemantle had no intention of resisting, or of getting
  arrested. Merely being halted by the police-if possible in fuU oratorical
  flow-would establish him as a Meadowood martyr and, incidentally, create
  one more color story for tomorrow's papers. (The morning papers, he
  imagined, had already closed with the earlier reports about himself and
  Meadowood; editors of the afternoon editions would be gniteful for a new
  lead.)
  Even more important, Meadowood homeowners would be further convinced that
  they had hired a strong counsel and leader, well worth his fee-the first
  installment checks for which, Lawyer Freemantle hoped, would start flooding
  in right after tomorrow.
  "We're all set to go," Floyd Zanetta, chairman of the earlier Meadowood
  meeting, reported.
  While Freemantle and the Tribune newsman had been speaking, several of the
  Meadowood men had hastily assembled the portable p.a. system, brought from
  the Sunday school hall. One of the men now handed Freemantle a hand
  microphone. Using it, he began to address the crowd.
             AIRPORT           429

  "My friends, we came here tonight in a mood of reason and with
  constructive thoughts. We sought to communicate that mood and thoughts
  to this airport's management, believing we bad a real and urgent problem,
  worthy of careful consideration. On your behalf I attempted-in reasoned
  but firm terms-to make that problem known. I hoped to report back to
  you-at best, some promise of relief; at least, some sympathy and
  understanding. I regret to tell you that your delegation received none.
  Instead, we were accorded only hostility, abuse, and an uncaring, cynical
  assurance that in future the airport's noise above and around your homes
  is going to get worse."
  There was a cry of outrage. Freemantle raised a hand. "Ask the others who
  were with me. They will tell you." He pointed to the front of the crowd.
  "Did this airport's general manager, or did he not, inform us that there
  was worse to come?" At first a shade reluctantly, then more definitely,
  those who had been in the delegation nodded.
  Having skillfully misrepresented the honest frankness which Mel
  Bakersfeld had shown the delegation, Elliott Freemantle continued, "I see
  others, as well as my Meadowood friends and clients, who have stopped,
  with curiosity, to discover what is going on. We welcome their interest.
  Let me inform you He continued in his customary, haranguing style.
  The crowd, sizable before, was now larger still, and continuing to grow.
  Travelers on their way to departure gates were having trouble getting
  through. Flight announcements were being drowned out by the noise. Among
  the Meadowooders, several had raised hastily scrawled signs which read:
  AIRLANES OR PEOPLE FIRST? ... OUTLAW JETS FROM MEADOWOOD!
 . . . NIX NOXIOUS NOISE . . . MEADOWOOD PAYS TAXES TOO... IMPEACH LINCOLN!
  Whenever Freemantle paused, the shouts and general uproar grew louder.
  A gray-haired man in a windbreaker yelled, "Let's give the airport a
  taste of their own noise." His words produced a roar of approval.
 Without question, Elliott Freemantle's "report" had
 430          AIRPORT

 by now developed into a fufl-scale demonstration. At any moment, he
 expected, the police would intervene.
  What Lawyer Freemantle did not know was that wfifle the Tv sessions were
  taking place and Meadowood residents assembling, the airport management's
  concern about Trans America Flight Two was beginning. Shortly after, every
  policeman in the terminal was concentrating on a search for Inez Guerrero,
  and thus the Meadowood demonstration escaped attention.
  Even after Inez was found, Police Lieutenant Ordway remained occupied with
  the emergency session in Mel Bakersfeld's office.
  As a result, after another fifteen minutes, Elliott Freemantle was becoming
  worried. Impressive as the demonstration was, unless halted officially, it
  would have little point. Where in God's name, he thought, were the airport
  police, and why weren't they doing their job?
  It was then that Lieutenant Ordway and Mel Bakersfeld came down together
  from the administrative mezzanine.
  Several minutes earlier the meeting in Mel's office had broken up. After
  the interrogation of Inez Guerrero and dispatch of the second warning
  message to Flight Two, there was nothing to be gained by retaining everyone
  together. Tanya Livingston, with the Trans America D.T.M. and chief pilot,
  returned anxiously to the airline's OffiCCS in the terminal, to await any
  fresh news there. The others-with the exception of Inez Guerrero, who was
  being held for questioning by downtown police detectives-returned to their
  own bailiwicks. Tanya had promised to notify Customs Inspector Standish,
  who was distressed and anxious about his niece aboard Flight Two,
  immediately there was any new development.
  Mel, not certain where he would keep his own vigil, left his office with
  Ned Ordway.
  Ordway saw the Meadowood demonstration first and caught sight of Elliott
  Freemantle. "That damn lawyerl I told him there'd be no demonstrations
  here." He hurried toward the concourse crowd. "I'll break this up fast."
             AIRPORT           431

  Alongside, Mel cautioned, "He may be counting on you doing that-just so
  he can be a hero."
  As they came nearer, Ordway shouldering his way ahead throu,yh the crowd,
  Elliott Freemantle proclaimed, "Despite assurances from the airport
  management earlier this evening, heavy air traffic-deafening and
  shattering as always-is still continuing at this late hour. Even now. .
  ."
  "Never mind that," Ned Ordway cut in brusquely. "I already told you there
  would be no demonstrations in this terminal."
  "But, Lieutenant, I assure you this is not a demonstration." Freemantle
  still held the microphone, so that his words carried clearly. "All that's
  happened is that I granted a television inter-view after a meeting with
  the airport management-I might say a highly unsatisfactory meeting-then
  reported to these people . . ."
  "Report some place else!" Ordway swung around, facing others nearest him.
  "Now, let's break this up!"
  There were hostile glances and angry mutterings among the crowd. As the
  policeman turned back to Elliott Freemantle, photographers' flash bulbs
  popped. TV floodlights, which had been turned off, went bright once more
  as television cameras focused on the two. At last, Elliott Freemantle
  thought, everything was going just the way he wanted.
  On the fringe of the crowd, Mel Bakersfeld was talking with one of the
  TV men and Tomlinson of the Tribune. The reporter was consulting his
  notes and reading a passage back. As he listened, Mel's face suffused
  with anger.
  "Lieutenant," Elliott Freemantle was saying to Ned Ordway, "I have the
  greatest respect for you and for your uniform. Just the same, I'd like
  to point out that we did hold a meeting some place else tonight-at Mead-
  owood-but because of noise from this airport, we couldn't bear
  ourselves."
  Ordway snapped back, "I'm not here for a debate, Mr. Freemantle. If you
  don't do as I say, you'll be arrested. I'm ordering you to get this group
  out of here."
 432          AIRPORT

  Someone in the crowd shouted, "Suppose we won't go?"
  Another voice urged, "Let's stay here! They can't arrest all of us."
  "No!" Elliott Freemantle held up a hand self-righteously. "Please listen
  to me! There will be no disorder; no disobedience. My friends and
  clients-this police officer has ordered us to desist and leave. We will
  comply with his order. We may consider it a grave restriction of free
  speech" . . . there were responsive cheers and booing . . . "but let it
  not be said that at any point we failed to respect the law." More
  crisply, he added, "I shall have a statement for the press outside."
  "One moment!" Mel Bakersfeld's voice cut sharply across the heads of
  others. He thrust his way forward. "Freemantle, I'm interested to know
  what will be in that press statement of yours. Will it be more
  misrepresentation. Another dose of distorted law reports to delude people
  who don't know any better? Or just plain, oldfashioned fabrication which
  you're so expert at?"
  Mel spoke loudly, his words carrying to those nearby. There was a buzz
  of interested reaction. People who had begun drifting away, stopped.
  Elliott Freemantle reacted automatically. "That's a malicious, libelous
  statement!" An instant later, scenting danger, he shrugged. "However, I
  shall let it pass."
  "Why? If it is libelous, you should know how to handle it." Mel faced the
  lawyer squarely. "Or perhaps you're afraid of it proving true."
  "I'm afraid of nothing, Mr. Bakersfeld. The fact is, we've been told by
  this policeman that the party's over. Now, if you'll excuse me. . . "
  "I said it was over for you," Ned Ordway pointed out. "What Mr.
  Bakersfeld does is something again. He has authority here." Ordway had
  moved beside Mel; together they blocked the lawyer's way.
  "If you were a real policeman," Freemantle objected, "you'd treat us both
  equally."
  Mel said unexpectedly, "I think he's right." Ordway glanced at him
  curiously. "You should treat us both equally. And instead of closing this
  meeting, I think you
             AIRPORT           433

 should allow me the same privilege of talking to these people which Mr.
 Freemantle just bad. That is, if you want to be a real policeman."
  "I guess I want to be." The big Negro police lieutenant, towering above
  the other two, was grinning. "I'm beginning to see it your way-and Mr.
  Freemantle's."
  Mel observed blandly to Elliott Freernantle, "You see, he's come around.
  Now, since we're all here, we may as well clear up a few things." He held
  out his hand. "Let me have that microphone."
  Mel's anger of a minute or two ago was now less apparent. When the
  Tribune reporter, Tomlinson, had read back from his notes the gist of
  what Elliott Freemantle stated in his TV interviews and later, Met
  reacted heatedly. Both Ton-Ainson and the TV producer asked Mel to
  comment on what had been said. He assured them that he would.
  "Oh no!" Freernantle shook his head decisively. The danger which he
  scented a few moments earlier was suddenly close and real. Once before,
  tonight, he had underestimated this man Bakersfeld; he had no intention
  of repeating that mistake. Freemantle himself now had the assembled
  Meadowood residents firmly under control; it was essential to his purpose
  that they remain that way. All he wanted at this moment was for everyone
  to disperse quickly.
  He declared loftily, "More than enough has been said." Ignoring Mel, he
  passed the microphone to one of the Meadowood men and indicated the p.a.
  equipment. "Let's get all this apart and be on our way."
  "I'll take that." Ned Ordway reached over and intercepted the microphone.
  "And leave the rest where it is." He nodded to several other policemen
  who had appeared on the fringes of the crowd. They moved in. While
  Freemantle watched helplessly, Ordway handed the microphone to Mel.
  "Thank you." Met faced the crowd of Meadowooders -many of their faces
  hostile-and others who, passing through the terminal, had stopped to
  listen. Though it was twenty minutes after midnight, and now Saturday
  morning, the heavy traffic in the main concourse showed
 434          AIRPORT

 no sign of lessening. Because of many delayed flights, pressures would
 probably continue through the remainder of the night, merging with a
 heightened weekend activity until schedules got back to normal. If one of
 the Meadowood objectives was to create a nuisance effect, Mel thought, it
 was succeeding. The extra thousand or so people were taxing available
 space in the concourse, arriving and departing passengers having to fight
 their way around like a flood tide encountering a sudden sandbank.
 Obviously the situation must not continue for more than a few minutes.
  "I'll be brief," Mel said. He spoke into the microphone, telling them who
  and what he was.
  "Earlier tonight I met a delegation representing all of you. I explained
  some of the airport's problems; also that we understood and sympathized
  with yours. I expected what I said to be passed along, if not exactly,
  then at least in substance. Instead, I find that I have been
  misrepresented and you have been deceived."
  Elliott Freemantle emitted a roar of rage. "That's a fie!" His face was
  flushed. For the first time tonight his impeccably styled hair was
  disarrayed.
  Lieutenant Ordway grasped the lawyer firmly by the arm. "Hush up, now!
  You had your turn."
  In front of Mel a broadcast microphone had joined the hand mike he was
  using. The TV lights were on as he continued.
  "Mr. Freemantle accuses me of lying. He's been strong in his use of words
  tonight." Mel consulted a note in his hand. "I understand they include
  'thievery,' 'indifference,' that I met your delegation with 'hostility
  and abuse'; further, that the noise abatement measures we are trying to
  enforce are a 'sham, a fake, and a public lie.' Well, we'll see what you
  think about who's lying-or misrepresenting-and who is not."
  He had made an error earlier, Mel realized, in speaking to the small
  delegation and not to this main group. His objectives had been to achieve
  understanding, yet avoid disruption in the terminal. Both objectives had
  failed.
 But at least he would aim for understanding now.
              AIRPORT          435

  "Let me outline this airport's policy on noise suppression. "
  For the second time tonight Mel described the operating limitations on
  pilots and their employer airlines. He added, "At normal times these
  restrictions are enforced. But in difficult weather, such as tonight's
  storm, pilots must be given leeway, and aircraft safety must come first."
  As to runways: "Wherever possible we avoid takeoffs over Meadowood from
  runway two five." Yet, he explained, there was occasional need to use
  that runway when runway three zero was out of commission, as at present.
  "We do our best for you," Mel insisted, "and we are not indifferent, as
  has been alleged. But we are in business as an airport and we cannot
  escape our basic responsibilities, plus our concern for aviation safety."
  The hostility among his audience was still apparent, but now there was
  interest as well.
  Elliott Freemantle-glaring at Mel and fuming-was aware of the interest
  too.
  "From what I've heard," Mel said, "Mr. Freemantle chose not to pass on
  some observations I offered to your delegation on the general subject of
  airport noise. My remarks were made"-he consulted his notes again,, not
  in 'uncaring cynicism,' as has been suggested, but in an attempt at
  honest frankness. I intend to share that frankness with you here."
  Now, as earlier, Mel admitted there was little more in the area of noise
  reduction which could be done; glum expressions appeared when he
  described the expected greater noise from new aircraft soon to be in use.
  But he sensed there was appreciation for objective honesty. Beyond a few
  scattered remarks, there were no interruptions, his words remaining
  audible above the background noises of the terminal.
  "There are two other things which I did not mention to your delegation,
  but now I intend to." Mel's voice hardened. "I doubt if you will like
  them."
  The first point, he informed them, concerned Meadowood community.
 436          AIRPORT

  "Twelve years ago your community didn't exist. It was a parcel of empty
  land--of low value until the airport's growth and closeness sent
  surrounding values soaring. To that extent your Meadowood is like thou-
  sands of communities which have mushroomed around airports everywhere in
  the world."
  A woman shouted, "When we came to live here, we didn't know about jet
  noise."
  "But we did!" Mel pointed a finger at the woman. "Airport managements
  knew that jet airplanes were coming, and knew what jet noise would be
  like, and we warned people, and local zoning commissions, and pleaded
  with them in countless Meadowoods not to build homes. I wasn't at this
  airport then, but there are records and pictures in our files. This
  airport put up signs where Meadowood is now: AIRPLANES WILL TAKE OFF AND
  LAND OVER THIS ROUTE. Other airports did the same. And everywhere the
  signs appeared, real estate developers and salesmen tore them down. Then
  they sold land and houses to people like you, keeping quiet about the
  noise to come, and airport expansion plans-which usually they knew of-and
  I guess in the end the real estate people outwitted us all."
  This time there was no rejoinder, only a sea of thoughtful faces, and Mel
  guessed that what he had said had struck home. He had a sense of keen
  regret. These were not antagonists whom he wanted to defeat. They were
  decent people with a real and pressing problem; neighbors for whom he
  wished he could do more.
  He caught sight of Elliott Freemantle's sneering features. "Bakersfeld,
  I suppose you think that's pretty clever." The lawyer turned away,
  shouting over nearer heads without benefit of amplifier. "Don't believe
  all that! You're being softened up! If you stick with me, we'll take
  these airport people, and we'll take them good!"
  "In case any of you didn't hear," Mel said into the microphone, "that was
  Mr. Freemantle advising you to stick with him. I have something to say
  about that, too."
  He told the now attentive crowd, "Many peoplepeople like you-have had
  advantage taken of them by
             AIRPORT           437

 being sold land or homes in areas which should not have been developed, or
 should have been developed for industrial use where airport noise doesn't
 matter. You haven't lost out entirely, because you have your land and homes;
 but chances are, their values have decreased."
 A man said gloomily, "Dam-n right!"
  "Now there's another scheme afoot to part you from your money. Lawyers all
  over North America are hotfooting it to airport dormitory communities
  because 'thar's gold in that thar noise.' "
  Lawyer Freemantle, his face flushed and distorted, shrilled, "You say one
  more word-I'll sue you!"
  "For what" Mel shot back. "Or have you guessed already what I'm going to
  say?" Well, he thought, maybe Freemantle would launch a libel action later,
  though he doubted it. Either way, Mel felt some of his old recklessness-a
  decision for plain speaking, and never mind the consequences-take command.
  It was a feeling which, in the past year or two, he had experienced rarely.
  "Residents in the communities I spoke of," Mel argued, "are being assured
  that airports can be suedsuccessfully. Homeowners near airports are being
  promised there's a pot of dollars at every runway's end. Well, I'm not
  saying airports can't be sued, nor am I saying there aren't some fine,
  sound lawyers engaged in antiairport litigation. What I'm warning you is
  that there are a good many of the other kind, too."
  The same woman who had called out before askedmore mildly this time-"How
  are we supposed to know which is which?"
  "It's difficult without a program; in other words, unless you happen to
  know some airport law. If you don't, you can be bamboozled by a one-sided
  list of legal precedents." Mel hesitated only briefly before adding, "I've
  heard a few specific law decisions mentioned tonight. If you wish, I'll
  tell you another side to them."
  A man at the front said, "Let's hear your version, mister."
 438          AIRPORT

  Several people were looking curiously at Elliott Freemantle.
  Mel had hesitated, realizing that this had already gone on longer than he
  intended. He supposed, though, that a few minutes more would make no
  difference.
  On the fringes of the crowd he caught sight of Tanya Livingston.
  "The legal cases which you and I have both heard referred to glibly," Mel
  said, "are old hat to people who ran airports. The first, I think, was U.S.
  v. Causby."
  That particular case,-a pillar of Lawyer Freemantle's presentation to the
  Meadowood group-was, Mel explained, a decision more than twenty years old.
  "It concerned a chicken fanner and military airplanes. ne airplanes
  repeatedly flew over the farmer's house, as low as sixty-seven feet-a whole
  lot lower than any airplane ever comes near Meadowood. The chickens were
  frightened; some died."
  After years of litigation the case found its way to the U.S. Supreme Court.
  Mel pointed out: "The total damages awarded were less than four hundred
  dollars-the value of the dead chickens."
  He added, "There was no pot of dollars for the farmer, nor is there-in that
  legal precedent-for you."
  Mel could see Elliott Freemantle, his face alternately crimson and white
  with rage. Ned Ordway was once more holding the lawyer by the arm.
  "There is one legal case," Mel observed, "which Mr. Freemantle has chosen
  not to mention. It's an important one-also involving a Supreme Court
  ruling-and well known. Unfortunately for Mr. Freemantle, it doesn't support
  his arguments, but runs counter to them."
  The case, he explained, was Batten v. Batten in which, in 1963, the Supreme
  Court ruled that only an actual "physical invasion" created liability.
  Noise alone was not enough.
  Mel continued, "Another ruling, along the same lines, was Loma Portal Civic
  Club v. American Airlines-a 1964 decision of the California Supreme Court."
  In this, he reported, the Court ruled that property owners were not
  entitled to restrict the flight of aircraft over houses
              AIRPORT          439

 near an airport. Public interest in continuance of air travel, the
 California court laid down, was paramount and overwhelming. . .
  Mel had quoted the legal cases unhesitatingly, without reference to
  notes. Clearly his audience was impressed. Now he smiled. "Legal
  precedents are like statistics. If you manipulate them, you can prove
  anything." He added, "You don't have to take my word for what I've told
  you. Look it up. It's all on record."
  A woman near Elliott Freemantle grumbled at him, "You didn't tell us all
  that. You just gave your side."
  Some of the hostility directed at Mel earlier was now being transferred
  toward the lawyer.
  Freemantle shrugged. After all, he decided, he still had more than a
  hundred and sixty signed retainer forms, which he had been careful to
  transfer to a locked bag in the trunk of his car. Nothing that was said
  here could undo the fact of those.
 A moment or two later he began to wonder.
  Mel Bakersfeld was being asked by several people about legal contract
  forms which they had signed this evening. Their voices betrayed doubt.
  Obviously Mel's manner, as well as what he said, had made a strong
  impression. The crowd was dividing into small groups, most in animated
  discussion.
  "I've been asked about a certain contract," Mel announced. Within the
  crowd, other voices silenced as he added, "I think you know the contract
  I mean. I have seen a copy of it."
  Elliott Freemantle pushed forward. "So what! You aren't a lawyer; we've
  settled that once before. Therefore you're no authority on contracts."
  This time Freemantle was close enough to the microphone for his words to
  carry.
  Mel snapped back, "I live with contracts! Every lessee in this
  airport-from the biggest airline to a headache pill
  concessionaire-operates under a contract approved by me, and negotiated
  by my staff."
  He swung back to the crowd. "Mr. Freemantle points out, correctly, that
  I am not a lawyer; so I'll give you a businessman's advice. In certain
  circumstances the con-
   440          AIRPORT

 tracts you signed tonight could be enforceable. A contract is a contract.
 You could be taken to debtor's court; the money might be collected. But
 my opinion is that, providing you serve proper notice immediately, neither
 thing will happen. For one thing, you have received no goods; no service
 has been rendered. For another, each of you would have to be sued
 separately." Mel smiled. "That, in itself, would be an undertaking.
  "One more thing." He looked directly at Elliott Freemantle. "I do not
  believe that any court would look favorably on a total legal fee in the
  region of fifteen thousand dollars for legal service which, at best, was
  nebulous."
  The man who had spoken earlier asked, "So what do we do?"
  "If you've genuinely changed your mind, I suggest that today or tomorrow
  you write a letter. Address it to Mr. Freemantle. In it, state that you
  no longer want legal representation as arranged, and why. Be sure to keep
  a copy. Again, in my opinion-that's the last you'll ever hear."
  Mel had been blunter than he at first intended, and he bad also been
  excessively reckless, he supposed, in going quite this far. If Elliott
  Freernantle chose, he could certainly make trouble. In a matter in which
  the airport-and therefore Mel-had active interest, Mel had interposed
  between clients and lawyer, casting doubt upon the latter's probity.
  Judging by the hatred in the lawyer's eyes, he would be delighted to do
  any harm to Mel he could. Yet instinct told Mel that the last thing
  Freemantle wanted was a searching public scrutiny of his client
  recruiting methods and working babits. A trial judge, sensitive about
  legal ethics, might ask awkward questions, later still, so might the Bar
  Association, which safeguarded the legal profession's standards. The more
  Mel thought about it, the less inclined he was to worry.
  Though Mel didn't know it, Elliott Freemantle had reached the same
  conclusion.
  Whatever else Freemantle might be, he was a pragmatist. He had long ago
  recognized that in life there were-
                AIRPORT          441

 gambits which you won, others that you lost. Sometimes the loss was sudden
 and illogical. A chance, a quirk, a nettle in the grass, could turn an
 almost-grasped success into mortifying defeat. Fortunately for people like
 Freemantle, the reverse was sometimes true.
  The airport manager, Bakersfeld, had proven to be a nettle-carelessly
  grasped-which should have been avoided. Even after their first brush, which
  Elliott Freemantle now realized could have been a warning to him, he had
  continued to underestimate his opponent by remaining at the airport instead
  of quitting while ahead. Another thing Freemantle had discovered too late
  was that Bakersfeld, while shrewd, was a gambler too. Only a gambler would
  have gone out on such a limb as Bakersfeld bad a moment ago. And only
  Elliott Freemantle -at this point-knew that Bakersfeld had won.
  Freemantle was aware that the Bar Association might regard this night's
  activity unfavorably. More to the point: He had had a brush with an
  association investigating committee once already, and had no intention of
  provoking another.
  Bakersfeld had been right, Elliott Freemantle thought. There would be no
  attempted debt collecting, through the courts, on the basis of the signed
  legal retainer forms. The hazards were too great, the spoils uncertain.
  He would not give up entirely, of course. Tomorrow, Freemantle decided, he
  would draft a letter to all Meadowood residents who had signed the forms;
  in it he would do his best to persuade them that retention of himself as
  legal counsel, at the individual fee specified, should continue. He
  doubted, though, if many would respond. The suspicion which Bakersfeld had
  effectively implanted---damn his guts!-was too great. There might be some
  small pickings left, from a few people who would be willing to continue,
  and later it would be necessary to decide if they were worth while. But the
  prospect of a big killing was gone.
  Something else, though, he supposed, would turn up soon. It always had.
 Ned Ordway and several other policemen were now
 442          AIRPORT

 dispersing the crowd; normal traffic through the concourse was resuming. The
 portable p.a. system was at last being disassembled and removed.
  Mel Bakersfeld noticed that Tanya, whom he had caught sight of a moment or
  two ago, was making her way in his direction.
  A woman--one of the Meadowood residents whom Mel had noticed several times
  before---confronted him. She had a strong intelligent face and
  shoulder-length brown hair.
  "Mr. Bakersfeld," the woman said quietly. "We've all talked a lot, and we
  understand a few things better than we did. But I still haven't heard
  anything that I can tell my children when they cry, and ask why the noise
  won't stop so they can sleep."
  Mel shook his head regretfully. In a few words the woman bad pointed up the
  futility of everything which had happened tonight. He knew he bad no answer
  for her. He doubted-while airports and dwellings remained in proximity-if
  there would ever be one.
  He was still wondering what to say when Tanya handed him a folded sheet of
  paper.
  Opening it, he read the message wl-Ach showed signs of being hastily typed:

    flight 2 had mid-air explosion. structural damage & injuries. now
    heading here 4 emergency landing, est. arrival 0130. capt. says must
    have runway three zero. tower reports runway still blocked.

               12

 In the bloody shambles which was the rear of the tourist cabin of Flight
 Two, Dr. Milton Compagno, general
              AIRPORT          443

 practitioner, was exerting the utmost of his professional skill in an
 attempt to save Gwen Meighen's life. He was not sure he would succeed.
  When the initial explosion from D. 0. Guerrero's dynamite bomb occurred,
  Gwen-next to Guerrero himself-was closest to the explosion's center.
  In other circumstances she would have been killed instantly, as was D. 0.
  Guerrero. Two things-for the moment-saved her.
  Interposed between Gwen and the explosion were Guerrero's body and the
  aircraft toilet door. Neither was an effective shield, yet the two together
  were sufficient to delay the blast's initial force the fraction of a
  second.
  Within that fractional time the airplane's skin ripped, and the second
  explosion-explosive decompressionoccurred.
  The dynamite blast still struck Gwen, hurling her backward, gravely injured
  and bleeding, but its force now had an opposing force-the outward rush of
  air through the bole in the fuselage at the aircraft's rear. The effect was
  as if two tornadoes met head on. An instant later the decompression
  triumphed, sweeping the original explosion out with it into the
  high-altitude, darkened night.
  Despite the forcefulness of the explosion, injuries were not widespread.
  Gwen Meighen, the most critically hurt, lay unconscious in the aisle. Next
  to her, the owlish young man who had emerged from the toilet and startled
  Guerrero, was wounded, bleeding badly, and dazed, but still on his feet and
  conscious. A half dozen passengers nearby sustained cuts and contusions
  from splinters and bomb fragments. Others were struck, and stunned or
  bruised by hurtling objects impelled toward the aircraft's rear by the
  explosive decompression, but none of the latter injuries was major.
  At first, after decompression, all who were not secure in seats were
  impelled by suction toward the gaping hole in the aircraft's rear. From
  this danger, too, Gwen Meighen was in gravest peril. But she had fallen so
  that an arm instinctively or accidentally-encircled a seat
 444          AIRPORT

 base. It prevented her from being dragged farther, and her body blocked
 others.
 After the initial outrush of air, the suction lessened.
  Now, thc greatest immediate danger for all-injured or not-was lack of
  oxygen.
  Although oxygen masks dropped promptly from their housings, only a handful
  of passengers had grasped and put them on at once.
  Before it was too late, however, a few people had acted. Stewardesses,
  responding to their training, and wherever they happened to be, seized
  masks and motioned others to do likewise. Three doctors, traveling with
  their wives as members of an off-season vacation tour, realized the need
  for speed, donned masks themselves and gave hasty instructions to those
  around them. Judy, the alert, eighteen-year-old niece of Customs Inspector
  Standish, placed a mask over the face of the baby in the seat beside her,
  as well as over her own. She then immediately signaled the baby's parents,
  and others across the aisle, to use oxygen. Mrs. Quonsett, the old lady
  stowaway, having observed oxygen demonstrations many times during her
  illegal flights, knew what to do. She took a mask herself and handed one to
  her friend, the oboe player, whom she pulled back into his seat beside her.
  Mrs. Quonsett had no idea if she was going to live or die, and found
  herself not greatly worried; but whatever happened, she intended to know
  what was going on until the very last moment.
  Someone thrust a mask at the young man near Gwen who had been wounded.
  Though swaying, and scarcely aware of what was happening, he managed to
  hold it to his face.
  Even so, barely half the passengers were on oxygen at the end of fifteen
  seconds-the critical time. By then, those not breathing oxygen were lapsing
  into drowsy stupor; in another fifteen seconds, most were unconscious.
  Gwen Meighen received no oxygen, nor immediate help. The unconsciousness,
  caused by her injuries, deepened.
 Then, on the flight deck, Anson Harris, accepting the
             AIRPORT           445

 risk of further structural damage and possible total destruction of the
 aircraft, made his decision for a high speed dive, saving Gwen and others
 from asphyxiation.
  The dive began at twenty-eight thousand feet altitude; it ended, two and
  a half minutes later, at ten thousand feet.
  A human being can survive without oxygen for three to four minutes
  without damage to the brain.
  For the first half of the dive-for a minute and a quarter, down to
  nineteen thousand feet-the air continued to be rarefied, and insufficient
  to support life. Below that point, increasing amounts of oxygen were
  present and breathable.
  At twelve thousand feet regular breathing was possible. By ten-with
  little time to spare, but enoughconsciousness returned to all aboard
  Flight Two who had lost it, excepting Gwen. Many were unaware of having
  been unconscious at all.
  Gradually, as initial shock wore off, passengers and the remaining
  stewardesses took stock of their situation. The stewardess who was second
  in seniority after Gwen -a pert blonde from Oak Lawn, Illinois-hurried
  toward the injured at the rear. Though her face paled, she called
  urgently, "Is there a doctor, please?"
  "Yes, miss." Dr. Compagno bad already moved from his seat without waiting
  to be called. A small, sharp-featured man who moved impatiently and
  talked quickly with a Brooklyn accent, he surveyed the scene hurriedly,
  conscious of the already biting cold, the wind streaming noisily through
  the gaping hole in the fuselage. Where the toilets and rear galley had
  been was a twisted mess of charred and bloodstained wood and metal. The
  back of the fuselage to the interior of the tail was open, with control
  wires and structural assemblies exposed.
  The doctor raised his voice to make himself heard above the noise of wind
  and engines, constant and encompassing now that the cabin was no longer
  sealed.
  "I suggest you move as many people as you can nearer the front. Keep
  everyone as warm as possible. We'll need blankets for those who are
  hurt."
 The stewardess said doubtfully, "I'll try to find
 446           AIRPORT

 some." Many of the blankets normally stored in overhead racks had been swept
 out, along with passengers' extra clothing and other objects, in the
 whirlwind of decompression.
  The two other doctors from Dr. Compagno's tour party joined him. One
  instructed another stewardess, "Bring us all the first aid equipment you
  have." Compagno-already on his knees beside Gwen-was the only one of the
  three with a medical bag.
  Carrying a bag with emergency supplies wherever he went was characteristic
  of Milton Compagno. So was taking charge now, even though-as a G.P.-he was
  outranked professionally by the other two doctors who were internists.
  Milton Compagno never considered himself off duty. Thirty-five years ago,
  as a young man who had fought an upward battle from a New York slum, he
  hung out a shingle in Chicago's Little Italy, near MHwaukee and Grand
  Avenues. Since then-as his wife told it, usually with resignation-the only
  time he ceased practicing medicine was while he slept. He enjoyed being
  needed. He acted as if his profession were a prize he had won, which, if
  not guarded, would slip away. He had never been known to refuse to see a
  patient at any hour, or to fail to make a house call if sent for. He never
  drove past an accident scene as did many of his medical brethren, fearing
  malpractice suits; he always stopped, got out of his car, and did what be
  could. He kept conscientiously up to date. Yet the more he worked, the more
  he seemed to thrive. He gave the impression of running through each day as
  if he planned to assuage the world's ailments in a lifetime, of which too
  little was left.
  The journey to Rome-many years postponed-was to visit the birthplace of his
  parents. With his wife, Dr. Compagno was to be away a month, and because he
  was growing old, he had agreed that the time should be a total rest. Yet he
  fully anticipated that somewhere en route, or perhaps in Italy (never mind
  regulations about not being licensed) he would be needed. If so, he was
  ready. It did not surprise him that he was needed now.
 He moved first to Gwen who was clearly most critical
              AIRPORT          447

 among those hurt. He told his colleagues, over his shoulder, "You attend to
 the others."
  In the narrow aisle, Dr. Compagno turned Gwen over partially, leaning
  forward to detect if she was breathing. She was, but her breath was light
  and shallow. He called to the stewardess he had been speaking to, "I need
  oxygen down here." While the girl brought a portable bottle and mask, he
  checked Gwen's mouth for an unobstructed airway; there were smashed teeth,
  which he removed, and a good deal of blood; he made sure the bleeding was
  not preventing respiration. He told the stewardess, "Hold the mask in
  place." The oxygen hissed. Within a minute or two a vestige of color re-
  turned to Gwen's skin, which had been ominously white.
  Meanwhile, he began to control bleeding, extensive around the face and
  chest. Working quickly, he used a hemostat to clamp off a facial
  artery-worst site of external hemorrhage-and pressure dressings elsewhere.
  He had already detected a probable fracture of the clavicle and left arm,
  which would need to be splinted later. He was distressed to see what
  appeared to be splinters from the explosion in the patient's left eye; he
  was less sure about the right.
  Second Officer Jordan, having moved carefully around Dr. Compagno and Gwen,
  took charge of the remaining stewardesses and was supervising the movement
  of passengers forward in the aircraft. As many tourist passengers as
  possible were being moved into the first class section, some squeezed in,
  two to a seat, others directed to the small, semicircular first class
  lounge, where spare seats were available. Such extra clothing as remained
  was distributed among those who appeared to need it most, without regard to
  ownership. As always, in such situations, people showed a willingness to
  help one another, unselfishness, and even flashes of humor.
  The other two doctors were bandaging passengers who had received cuts, none
  excessively serious. The young man with glasses, who was behind Gwen at the
  moment of the explosion, bad a deep gash in one arm, but it could be
  repaired and would heal. He had other
 448          AIRPORT

 minor cuts about the face and shoulders. For the time being, pressure
 dressings were applied to his injured arm, and he was given morphine,
 while being made as comfortable and warm as possible.
  Both the medical attention and movement of passengers was being made more
  difficult by heavy buffeting which the aircraft, at its present low
  altitude, was taking from the storm. There was constant turbulence, punc-
  tuated every few minutes by violent pitching or sideways movements.
  Several passengers were finding airsickness added to their other
  troubles.
  After reporting to the flight deck for the second time, Cy Jordan
  returned to Dr. Compagno.
  "Doctor, Captain Dernerest asked me to say he's grateful for everything
  you and the other doctors are doing. When you can spare a moment, he'd
  appreciate it if you'd come to the flight deck to teU him what to radio
  ahead about casualties."
  "Hold this dressing," Dr. Compagno ordered. "Press down hard, right
  there. Now I want you to help me with a splint. We'll use one of those
  leather magazine covers, with a towel under it. Get the biggest cover you
  can find, and leave the magazine in."
  A moment later: "I'll come when I can. You can say to your captain that
  I think, as soon as possible, he should make an announcement to the
  passengers. People qre getting over their shock. They could use some
  reassurance."
  "Yes, sir." Cy Jordan looked down at the still unconscious figure of
  Gwen, his normally mournful, hollowchecked face accentuated by concern.
  "Is there a chance for her, Doc?"
  "There's a chance, son, though I wouldn't say it was the best. A lot
  depends on her own strength."
 "I always figured she had a lot of that."
  "A pretty girl, wasn't she?" Amid the tom flesh, blood, and dirty,
  tousled hair, it was difficult to be sure.
 "Very."
  CompaQno remained silent. Whatever happened, the girl on the floor would
  not be pretty any more-not without plastic surgery.
             AIRPORT           449

  "I'll give the captain your message, sir." Looking a little sicker than
  before, Cy Jordan went forward to the flight deck.
  Vernon Demerest's voice came calmly on the cabin p.a. system a few
  moments later.
 "Ladies and gentlemen, this is Captain Demerest . .
 To overcome the roar of wind and engines, Cy Jordan had turned the volume
 control to "full." Each word rang clearly.
  "You know we've had trouble-bad trouble. I won't attempt to minimize it.
  I won't make any jokes either, because up here on the flight deck we
  don't see anything that's funny, and I imagine you feel the same way.
  We've all come through an experience which none of us in the crew has
  ever had before, and I hope will never have again. But we have come
  through. Now, we have the airplane under control, we're turned around,
  and expect to land at Lincoln International in about three quarters of
  an hour."
  In the two passenger cabins, where first and tourist class now mingled
  without distinction, movement and conversation stopped. Eyes
  instinctively went to the overhead speakers as everyone within hearing
  strained to miss nothing of what was said.
  "You know, of course, that the airplane is damaged. But it's also true
  that the damage could have been a whole lot worse."
  On the flight deck, with the p.a. mike in hand, Vernon Demerest wondered
  how specific-and how honest-he should be. On his own regular flights he
  always kept captain-to-passengers announcements to the barest terse
  minimum. He disapproved of "long-playing captains" who bombarded their
  captive audience with assorted commentaries from a flight's beginning to
  its end. He sensed, though, that this time he should say more, and that
  passengers were entitled to be told the true situation.
  "I won't conceal from you," Demerest said into the microphone, "that we
  have a few problems still ahead of us. Our landing will be heavy, and
  we're not sure how the damage we've suffered will affect it. I'm telling
  you
 450          AIRPORT

 this because right after this announcement the crew will start giving
 instructions on how to sit, and how to brace yourselves, just before. we
 land. Another thing you'll be told is how to get out of the airplane in
 a hurry, if we need to, right after landing. If that should happen, please
 act caln-dy but quickly, and obey instructions given you by any member of
 the crew.
  "Let me assure you that on the ground everything necessary is being done
  to help us." Remembering their need for runway three zero, Demerest hoped
  it was true. He also decided there was no point in going into detail
  about the problem of the jammed stabilizer; most passengers wouldn't
  understand it anyway. With a touch of lightness in his voice, he added,
  "In one way you're lucky tonight because instead of one experienced
  captain on the flight deck, it just so happens you have two-Captain
  Harris and myself. We're a couple of ancient pelicans with more years of
  flying than we sometimes like to think about-except right now when all
  that combined experience comes in mighty useful. We'll be helping each
  other, along with Second Officer Jordan. who'll also be spending part of
  his time back with you. Please help us too. If you do, I promise you
  we'll come through this together-saf ely."
 Dernerest replaced the p.a. mike.
  Without taking his eyes from the flight instruments, Anson Harris
  remarked, "That was pretty good. You should be in politics."
  Demerest said sourly, "Nobody'd vote for me. Most times, people don't
  like plain talking and the truth." He was remembering bitterly the Board
  of Airport Commissioners meeting at Lincoln International where he urged
  curtailment of airport insurance vending. Plain speech there had proved
  disastrous. He wondered how the members of the Board, including his
  smooth, smug brother-in-law, would feet after learning about D. 0.
  Guerrero's purchase of insurance and his maniacal intention to destroy
  Flight Two. Probably, Dernerest thought, they would be complacent as
  ever, except that now instead of saying It will never happen, they would
  say, What occurred was exceptional; the odds are
             AIRPORT           451

 against it happening again. Well, assuming Flight Two made it back safely,
 and whatever was said or wasn't, sure as hell he was going to create
 another big fight about airport insurance vending. The difference was:
 this time more people would listen. Tonight's near disaster, however it
 turned out, was certain to attract a lot of press attention; he would make
 the most of it. He would talk bluntly to reporters about flight insurance,
 about the Lincoln airport commissioners, and not least about his precious
 brother-in-law, Mel Bakersfeld. Trans America's public relations flacks
 would do their damnedest, of course, to keep him incommunicado "in the
 interests of company policy." Just let them try!
  The radio crackled alive. "Trans America Two, this is Cleveland Center.
  Lincoln advises runway three zero still temporarily out of use. They are
  attempting to clear obstruction before you arrive. Failing that, will
  land you on two five."
  Harris's face went grim as Demerest acknowledged. Runway two five was two
  thousand feet shorter, as well as narrower, and at the moment with a bad
  crosswind. Using it would compound the hazards they already faced.
  Demerest's expression clearly reflected his reaction to the message.
  They were still being thrown about severely by the storm. Most of
  Harris's time was occupied by holding the aircraft reasonably steady.
  Demerest swung around to the second officer. "Cy, go back with the
  passengers again, and take charge. See that the girls demonstrate the
  landing drill, and that everybody understands it. Then pick some key
  people who look reliable. Make sure they know where emergency exits are
  and how to use them. If we run out of runway, which'11 be for sure if we
  use two five, everything may come apart in a hurry. If that happens we'll
  all try to make it back there and help, but there may not be time."
  "Yes, sir." Once more, Jordan eased out of his flight engineer's seat.
 Demerest, still anxious for news of Gwen, would have
 452          AIRPORT

 preferred to go himself, but at this stage neither he nor Harris could
 leave the flight deck.
  As Cy Jordan left, Dr. Compagno arrived. It was now easier to move into
  and from the flight deck, since Jordan had moved the smashed entrance
  door to one side.
  Milton Compagno introduced himself briskly to Vernon Demerest. "Captain,
  I have the report of injuries you asked for."
  "We're grateful to you, Doctor. If you hadn't been here . . ."
  Compagno waved a hand in dismissal. "Let's do all that later." lie opened
  a leather-covered notebook where a slim gold pencil marked a page. It was
  characteristic that he had already obtained names, and recorded injuries
  and treatment. "Your stewardess, Miss Meighen, is the most badly hurt.
  She has multiple lacerations of the face and chest, with considerable
  bleeding. There is a compound fracture of the left arm and, of course,
  shock. Also, please notify whoever is making arrangements on the ground
  that an ophthalmic surgeon should be available immediately."
  Vernon Demerest, his face paler than usual, had been steeling himself to
  copy the doctor's information onto the flight log clipboard. Now, with
  sudden shock, he stopped.
 "An ophthalmic surgeon! You mean ... her eyes?"
  "I'm afraid so," Dr. Compagno said gravely. He corrected himsetf. "At
  least, her left eye has splinters, whether wood or metal I've no means
  of knowing. It will require a specialist to decide if the retina is
  affected. The right eye, as far as I can tell, is unharmed."
  "Oh, God!" Feeling physically sick, Dernerest put a hand to his face.
  Dr. Compagno shook his head. "It's too early to draw conclusions. Modem
  ophthalmic surgery can do extraordinary things. But time will be
  important."
  "We'll send all you've told us on company radio," Anson Harris assured
  him. "They'll have time to be ready."
             AIRPORT           453

 "Then I'd better give you the rest."
  Mechanically, Dernerest wrote down the remainder of the doctor's report.
  Compared with Gwen's injuries, those of other passengers were slight.
  "I'd better get back," Dr. Compagno said. "To see if there's any change."
 Dernerest saij abruptly, "Don't go."
 The doctor stopped, his expression curious.
  "Gwen . . . that is, Miss Meighen . . ." Demerest's voice sounded strained
  and awkward, even to himself. "She was . . . is . . . pregnant. Does it
  make any difference?"
  He saw Anson Harris glance sideways in startled surprise.
  The doctor answered, a shade defensively, "I had no means of knowing. The
  pregnancy can't be very far advanced."
  "No," Demerest avoided the other man's eyes. "It isn't." A few minutes
  earlier he had resolved not to ask the question. Then he decided that he
  had to know.
  Mflton Compagno considered. "It will make no difference to her own ability
  to recover, of course. As to the child, the mother was not deprived of
  oxygen long enough to do harni ... no one was. She has no abdominal
  injuries." He stopped, then went on fussily, "So there should be no effect.
  Providing Miss Meighen survives-and with prompt hospital treatment her
  chances are fair to good-the baby should be born normally."
  Dernerest nodded without speaking. Dr. Compagno, after a moment's
  hesitation, left.
  Briefly, between the two captains, there was a silence. Anson Harris broke
  it. "Vernon, I'd like to rest before I make the landing. Will you fly for
  a while?"
  Dernerest nodded, his hands and feet moving automatically to the controls.
  He was grateful for the absence of questioning or comment about Gwen. What-
  ever Harris was thinking or wondering, he had the decency to keep it to
  himself.
  Harris reached for the clipboard containing Dr. Compagno's information.
  "I'll send that." He switched radio receivers to call Trans America
  dispatch.
 454          AIRPORT

  For Vernon Dernerest the act of flying was a physical relief after the
  shock and emotion of what he had just heard. Possibly Harris had
  considered that, possibly not. Either way, it made sense that whoever was
  in command for the landing should conserve his energies.
  As to the landing, hazardous as it was going to be, Anson Harris
  obviously assumed he would make it. Demerest--on the basis of Harris's
  performance so farsaw no reason why he should not.
  Harris completed his radio call, then eased his seat rearward and allowed
  his body to rest.
  Beside him, Vernon Dernerest tried to concentrate solely on flying. He
  did not succeed. To a pilot of experience and skill, total concentration
  during level flight -even in difficult circumstances, as now-was neither
  usual nor necessary. Though he tried to banish or postpone them, thoughts
  of Gwen persisted.
  Gwen ... whose chance of remaining alive was "fair to good," who tonight
  had been bright and beautiful and full of promise, would never go to
  Naples now, as they had planned . . . Gwen, who an hour or two ago had
  told him in her clear, sweet English voice, I happen to love you . . .
  Gwen, whom he loved in return, despite himself, and why not face it?
  With grief and anguish he visualized her-injured, unconscious, and
  carrying his child; the child he urged her to dispose of like an unwanted
  litter . . . She had replied with spirit, I was wondering when you'd get
  around to it . . . Later she bad been troubled. It's a gift . . . that's
  great and wonderful. Then suddenly, in our kind of situation you're faced
  with ending it all, of squandering what was given.
  But eventually, after his persuading, she conceded, Well, I suppose in
  the end I'll do what's sensible. I'll have an abortion.
  There would be no abortion now, In the kind of hospital Gwen was going
  to, it would not be permitted unless as a direct choice between saving
  the mother or the unborn child. From what Dr. Compagno had said, there
  seemed no likelihood of that; and afterward it would be too late.
              AIRPORT          455

  So if Gwen came through, the baby would be born. Was he relieved or
  sorry? Vernon Demerest wasn't sure.
  He remembered something else, though, that Gwen had said. The digerence
  between you and me is that you've had a child ... whatever happens
  there's always someone, somewhere that's you again.
  She had been speaking of the child whom he had never known, even by name;
  the girl child, born in the limbo of the Trans America 3-PPP
  arrangements, who had disappeared from sight immediately and forever.
  Tonight, under questioning, he admitted that sometimes he wondered about
  her. What he had not admitted was that he wondered, and remembered, more
  often than he cared to.
  His unknown daughter was eleven years old; Dem
 crest knew her birthday, though he tried not to re
 member it, but always did, wishing the same thing each
 year: that there was something he could do --- even a
 simple thing like sending a greeting . . . He supposed it
 was because he and Sarah had never had a child
 (though both had wanted children) whose birthday he
 could share . . . At other times he asked himself ques
 tions to which he knew there could be no answers:
 Where was his daughter? What was she like? Was she
 happy? Sometimes he looked at children in the streets; if
 their ages seemed right, be speculated on whether, by
 merest chance . . . then chided himself for foolishness.
 Occasionally the thought haunted him that his daughter
 might be ill-treated, or need help which he had no
 knowledge or means to give . . . At the instinctive re
 minder, now, Vernon Demerest's hands tightened on the
 control yoke.
  For the first time he realized: he could never endure the same
  uncertainty again. His own nature demanded positiveness. He could, and
  would, have gone through with the abortion because that was final,
  definite; moreover, nothing Anson Harris had said earlier on that subject
  had changed his mind. True, he might have doubts, or even sorrow,
  afterward. But he would know.
  The overhead radio speaker cut abruptly through his thoughts. "Trans
  America Two, this is Cleveland
 456          AIRPORT

 Center. Turn left on beading two zero five. Begin descent, when ready, to
 six thousand. Advise when leaving ten.' :
  Demerest s hand pulled back all four throttles to begin losing altitude.
  He reset the flight path indicator and eased into the turn.
  "Trans America Two coming on course two zero five," Anson Harris was
  advising Cleveland. "We are leaving ten thousand now."
  The buffeting increased as they descended, but with every minute they
  were nearer destination and the hope of safety. They were also nearing
  the air route boundary point where, at any moment, Cleveland would hand
  them over to Chicago Center. After that, there would be thirty minutes
  flying before entering the approach control of Lincoln friternational.
  Harris said quietly, "Vernon, I guess you know bow badly I feet about
  Gwen." He hesitated. "Whatever's between the two of you is none of my
  business, but if there's anything I can do as a friend . .
  "There's nothing," Demerest said. He had no intention of unburdening
  himself to Anson Harris, who was a competent pilot, but still, in
  Demerest's eyes, an old maid.
  Demerest regretted now that he had revealed as much as he did a few
  minutes ago, but emotion got the better of him-something which happened
  rarely. Now, he let his face resume a scowl, his shield against
  disclosing personal feelings.
  "Passing through eight thousand feet," Anson Harris told air route
  control.
  Demerest continued to hold the aircraft in a steady descent, on course.
  His eyes swept the flight instruments in consistent sequence.
  He remembered something about the child-bis child -who had been born
  eleven years ago. For weeks before the birth, he debated with himself
  whether he should confess his infidelity to Sarah, with the suggestion
  that they adopt the baby as their own. In the end, his courage had failed
  him. He dreaded his wife's shocked reaction; he feared that Sarah would
  never
             AIRPORT           457

 accept the child, whose presence she would regard as a permanent reproach.
  Long after, and too late, he realized he had done
 Sarali an injustice. True, she would have been shocked
 and hurt, ju st as she would be shocked and hurt now, if
 she learned about Gwen. But afterward, in a short time,
 Sarah's habit of coping would have taken over. For all
 Sarah's placidity and what Dernerest thou(~,ht of as her
 dullness, despite her suburban bourgeois activities-the
 curling Club and amateur oil painting-his wife had a
 core of sane solidity. He supposed it was why they had
 staye ' d married; why, even now, he could not contem
 plate divorce.
  Sarah would have worked something out. She would have made him squirm and
  suffer for a while, perhaps for a long time. But she would have agreed
  to the adoption, and the one who would not have suffered at all would
  have been the child. Sarah would have seen to that; she was that kind of
  person. He thought: if only . . .
  Demerest said aloud, "Life's full of goddamned 'if onlys.'
  He leveled out at six thousand feet, advancing the throttles to maintain
  speed. The jet whine rose in pitch.
  Harris had been busy changing radio frequencies and -now they had passed
  the handoff point-reporting to Chicago Center. He asked, "Did you say
  something?" Demerest shook his head.
  The storm's turbulence was as bad as ever, the aircraft still hein!z
  thrown around.
  "Trans America Two, we have you in radar contact," a new voice from
  Chicago Center rasped.
 Harris was still attending to communications.
  Vernon Demerest reasoned: So far as Gwen was concerned, lie mi(_11it just
  as well make a decision now.
  All right, he decided; he would face Sarah's tears and denunciations, and
  perhaps her anger, but he would tell her about Gwen.
  He would admit his responsibdity for Gwen's pregnancy.
  At home, the resulting hysteria might last several days and the
  aftereffects for weeks or even months,
 458          AIRPORT

 during which time he would suffer mightily. But when the worst was over
 they would work something out. Strangely-and he supposed it showed his
 confidence in Sarah-he had not the slightest doubt they would.
  He had no idea what they might do, and a good deal would depend on Gwen.
  Despite what the doctor had just said about the seriousness of Gwen's
  injuries, Demerest had a conviction she would come through. Gwen had
  spunk and courage; even unconsciously she would fight to live, and
  eventually, whatever impairment she suffered, would adjust to it. She
  would also have her own ideas about the baby. She might not give it up
  easily or at all. Gwen was not one to be pushed around, or to be told
  what to do. She did her own thinking.
  The result might be that he would have two women on his hands-plus
  child-instead of one. That would take some working out!
  It would also pose the question: just how far would Sarah go?
 God!-what a mess.
  But now that his own first decision was taken, he had the conviction that
  something good might result. He reflected grimly: For all it was going
  to cost him, in anguish and hard cash, it better had.
  The altimeter showed they were maintaining six thousand feet.
  There would be the child, of course. Already be was beginning to think
  of that part in a new and different way. Naturally, he wouldn't let
  himself get sickly sentimental, the way some people-Anson Harris, for
  example-were about children; but it would be his child, after all. The
  experience would certainly be new.
  What was it Gwen had said in the car on their way to the airport tonight?
  ... a little Vernon Demerest inside me. If we had a boy we could call him
  Vernon Demerest, Junior, the way Americans do.
 Maybe it wasn't such a bad idea. He chuckled.
  Harris gJanced sideways. "What are you laughing at?"
 Demerest exploded. "I'm not laughing! Why the hell
              AIRPORT          459

 would I laugh? What is there for any of us to laugh about?"
 Harris shrugged, "I thought I heard you."
  "That's the second time you've heard things that didn't happen. After
  this check ride I suggest you have an ear checkup."
 "There's no need to be unpleasant."
  "Isn't there? Isn't there?" Dernerest came angrily alert. "Maybe what
  this whole situation needs is for someone to get unpleasant."
  "If that's true," Harris said, "there's no one better qualified than
  you."
  "Then when you're through with damnfool questions, start flying again,
  and let me talk to those duffers on the ground."
  Anson Harris slid his seat forward. "If you want to, why not?" He nodded.
  "I have it."
  Relinquishing the controls, Dernerest reached for the radio mike. He felt
  better, stronger, for a decision taken. Now he would contend with more
  immediate things. He let his voice grate harshly. "Chicago Center, this
  is Captain Demerest of Trans America Two. Are you still listening down
  there, or have you taken sleeping pills and quit?"
  "This is Chicago Center, Captain. We're listening, and no one's quit."
  The controllers voice held a note of reproach; Dernerest ignored it.
  "Then why in blazes aren't we getting action? This Right is in serious
  trouble. We need help."
  "Stand by, please." There was a pause, then a new voice. "This is Chicago
  Center supervisor. Captain, Trans America Two, I heard your last
  transmission. Please understand we're doing everything we can. Before you
  came into our area we had a dozen people working, clearing other traffic.
  They're still doing it. We're giving you priority, a clear radio
  frequency, and a straight-in course for Lincoln."
  Dernerest barked, "It isn't enough." He paused, holding down the mike
  button, then continued. "Chicago supervisor, listen carefully. A
  straight-in course to Lincoln is no good if it ends on runway two
 460          AIRPORT

 five, or any runway except three zero. Don't tell me three zero's out of
 use; I've heard it already, and I know why. Now, write this down, and see
 that Lincoln understands it too: This airplane is heavily loaded; we'll be
 landing very fast. As well as that, we've structural damage including
 unserviceable stabilizer trim and doubtful rudder control. If we're broutzht
 in on two five, there'll be a broken airplane and dead people before the
 next hour is over. So call Lincoln, mister, and turn the screws. Tell them
 I don't care how they do it-they can blow apart what's blocking three zero
 if they have tobut we need that runway. Do you understand?"
  "Yes, Trans America Two, we understand very well." The supervisor's voice
  was unruffled, but a shade more human than before. "Your message is being
  passed to Lincoln now."
  "Good." Dernerest held the transmit button down again. "I have another
  message. This one is to Mel Bakersfeld, airport general manager at Lincoln.
  Give him the previous message, then add this-personal from his
  brother-in-law: 'You helped make this trouble, you bastard, by not
  listening to me about airport flight insurance. Now you owe it to me and
  all others on this flight to climb off your penguin's butt and get that
  runway

  T'his time the supervisor's voice was doubtful. "Trans America Two, we've
  copied your message. Captain, are you sure you want us to use those words~"
  "Chica,-,o Center," Demerest's voice slammed back, "you're damn right
  you'll use those words! I'm ordering you to send that message-fast, and
  loud, and clear."

               13

 On ground control radio in his speeding car, Mel Bakersfeld could hear
 airport emergency vehicles being summoned and positioned.
              AIRPORT          461

 "Ground control to city twenty-five."
 Twenty-five was the call sign of the airport fire chief.
 "This is city twenty-five rolling. Go ahead ground."
 "Further information, Category two emer ' gency in ap-
 proximately thirty-five minutes. The flig,,ht in question is
 disabled and landing on runway three zero, if runway
 open. If not open, will use runway two five."
  Whenever they could, airport controllers avoided naming, on radio, an
  airline involved in any accident, or a potential one, The phrase "the
  fli.iht in question" was used as a cover. Airlines were touchy about such
  things, taking the view that the fewer times their name was repeated in
  that kind of context, the better.
  Just the same, Mel was aware, what had happened tonight would get plenty of
  publicity, most likely worldwide.
  "City twenty-five to ground control. Is the pilot requesting foam on
  runway?"
 "No foam. Repeat, no foam."
  The absence of foam meant that the aircraft had serviceable landing gear
  and would not require a belly landing.
  All emergency vehicles, Mel knew-pumpers, salvage trucks, and
  ambulances-woidd be following the fire chief, who also had a separate radio
  channel to communicate with them individually. When an emergency was
  notified, no one waited. They observed the principle: better to be ready
  too soon than too late. Emergency crews would now take up position between
  the two runways, ready to move to either as necessary. The procedure was no
  improvisation. Every move for situations like this was detailed in an
  airport emergency master plan.
  When there was a break in transmissions, Mel thumbed on his own radio mike.
 "Ground control from mobile one."
 "Mobile one, go ahead."
  "Has Joe Patroni, with stalled aircraft on runway three zero, been advised
  of new emergency situation?"
 "Affirmative. We are in radio touch."
 "What is Patroni's report on progress?"
 462          AIRPORT

  "He expects to move the obstructing aircraft in twenty minutes."
 "Is he certain?"
 "Ne2ative,"
  Mel Bakersfeld waited before transmitting again. He was heading across
  the airfield for the second time tonight, one hand on the wheel, the
  other on the microphone-driving as fast as he dared in the continued
  blowing snow and restricted visibility. Taxi and runway lights,
  gUidelines in the dark, flashed by. Beside him on the car's front seat
  were Tanya Livingston and the Tribune reporter, Tomlinson.
  A few minutes ago, when Tanya had handed Mel her note about the explosion
  aboard Flight Two, and the flight's attempt to reach Lincoln
  International, Mel had broken free instantly from the crowd of Meadowood
  residents. With Tanya beside him, he headed for the elevators which would
  take him to the basement garage two floors below, and his official
  airport car. Mel's place now was on runway three zero, if necessary to
  take charge. Shouldering his way through the crowd in the main concourse,
  he had caught sight of the Tribune reporter and said tersely, "Come with
  me." He owed Tomlinson a favor in return for the reporter's tip-off about
  Elliott Freemantle-both the legal contract form and the lawyer's
  mendacious statements later, which Mel had been able to repudiate. When
  Tomlinson hesitated, Mel snapped, "I haven't time to waste. But I'm
  giving you a chance you may be sorry for not taking." Without further
  questioning, Tomlinson fell in step beside him.
  Now, as they drove, Mel accelerating ahead of taxiing aircraft where he
  could, Tanya repeated the substance of the news about Flight Two.
  "Let me get this straight," Tomlinson said. "There's only one runway long
  enough, and facing the right direction?"
  Mel said grimly, "That's the way it is. Even though there should be two."
  He was remembering bitterly the proposals he had made, over three
  successive years, for an additional runway to parallel three zero. The
  airport
             AIRPORT           463

 needed it. Traffic volume and aircraft safety cried out for implementation
 of Mel's report, particularly since the runway would take two years to
 build. But other influences proved stronger. Money had not been found, the
 new runway had not been built. Nor had construetion-despite Mel's further
 pleas-yet been approved.
  With a good many projects, Mel could swing the Board of Airport
  Commissioners his way. In the case of the proposed new. runway, he had
  canvassed them individually and received promises of support, but later
  the promises were withdrawn. Theoretically, airport commissioners were
  independent of political pressure; in fact, they owed their appointments
  to the mayor and, in most cases, were political partisans themselves. If
  pressure was put on the mayor to delay an airport bond issue because of
  other projects, similarly financed and more likely to swing votes, the
  pressure penetrated through. In the case of the proposed new runway it
  not only penetrated, but three times had proved effective. Ironically,
  as Mel remembered earlier tonight, tripledecking of the airport's public
  parking lots-less necessary, but more visible-had not been held up.
  Briefly, and in plain words, which until now he had reserved for private
  sessions, Mel described the situation, including its political overtones.
  "I'd like to use all that as coming from you." Tomlinson's voice held the
  controlled excitement of a reporter who knew he was on to a good story.
  "May IT'
  There would be the devil to pay after it appeared in print, Mel realized;
  he could imagine the indignant telephone calls from City Hall on Monday
  morning. But someone should say it. The public ought to know how serious
  the situation was.
  "Go ahead," Mel said. "I guess I'm in a quoting mood."
  "That's what I thought." From the far side of the car the reporter
  regarded Mel quizzically. "If you don't mind my saying so, you've been
  in great form tonight. Just now, and with the lawyer and those Meadowood
  people. More like your old self. I haven't heard you speak out like that
  in a long while."
 464          AIRPORT

  Mel kept his eyes on the taxiway ahead, waiting to pass an Eastern DC-8,
  which was turning left. But he was thinking: Had his demeanor of the past
  year or two, the absence of his old fiery spirit, been so obvious that
  others had noticed it also?
  Beside him, close enough so that Mel was conscious of her nearness and
  warmth, Tanya said softly, "Ali the time we're talking ... about runways,
  the public, Meadowood, other things . . . I'm thinking about those people
  on Flight Two. I wonder how they're feeling, if they're afraid."
  "They're afraid, all right," Mel said. "If they've any sense, and
  provided they know what's happening. I'd be afraid, too."
  He was remembering his own fear when he had been trapped in the sinking
  Navy airplane, long ago. As if triggered by memory, he felt a surge of
  pain around the old wound in his foot. In the past hour's excitement he
  had adjusted to ignoring it, but as always, with tiredness and
  overstrain, the effect forced itself on him in the end. Mel compressed
  his lips tightly and hoped that soon the seizure would lessen or pass.
  He had been waiting for another gap in ground-toground radio exchanges.
  As one occurred, Mel depressed his mike button once more.
  "Mobile one to ground control. Do you have report on how critical is the
  requirement of the flight in distress for runway three zero?"
  "Mobile one, we understand very critical. Is that Mr. Bakersfeld?"
 "Yes, it is."
 "Stand by, sir. We're getting more information now."
  Still driving, nearing runway three zero, Mel waited. What came next
  would determine whether or not to follow the drastic course of action he
  was contemplating.
  "Ground control to mobile one. Following message just received, via
  Chicago Center, from flight in question. Message begins. Straight-in
  course to Lincoln no good if ends on runway two five. Airplane heavily
  loaded, will be landing very fast. . ."
             AIRPORT           465

  The trio in the car listened tensely to the report of Vernon Demerest's
  message. At the words, "lf we're brought in on two live there'll be a
  broken airplane and dead people," Mel heard Tanya's sharp intake of
  breath, felt her shudder beside him.
  He was about to acknowledge when ground control transmitted again.
  "Mobile one-Mr. Bakersfeld, there is an addition to previous message,
  personal to you, from your brotherin-law. Can you reach a phone?"
 "Negative," Mel said. "Read it now, please."
  "Mobile one"-he sensed the controller hesitate"the language is very
  personal."
  The controller was aware-as Mel was-that many ears around the airport
  would be listening.
 "Does it concern the present situation?"
 "Affirmative."
 "Then read it."
  "Yes, sir. Message begins. 'You helped make this trouble, you bastard,
  by not listening to me about airport flight insurance . . .
  Mel's mouth tightened, but he waited to the end, then acknowledged
  noncommittally, "Roger, out." He was sure that Vernon had enjoyed sending
  the message, as much as anything could be enjoyed aboard Flight Two at
  present, and would be even more pleased to learn the way it was received.
  The extra message was unnecessary, though. Mel had already made his
  decision on the basis of the first.
  His car was now speeding down runway three zero. The circle of
  floodlights and vehicles surrounding the mired A6reo-Mexican 707 jet were
  coming into sight. Mel noted approvingly that the runway was only lightly
  snow-covered. Despite the blockage of one portion, the remainder had been
  kept plowed.
  He switched his radio to the frequency of airport maintenance.
 "Mobile one to Snow Desk."
  "This is Snow Desk." Danny Farrow's voice sounded tired, which was not
  surprising. "Go ahead."
 "Danny," Mel said, "break the Conga Line. Send the
 466          AIRPORT

 Oshkosh plows and heavy graders across to runway three zero. They're to
 head for where the stuck airplane is, and await instructions. Get them
 started now, then call me back."
  "Roger, wilco." Danny seemed about to add a question, then apparently
  changed his mind. A moment later, on the same frequency, the occupants
  of the car heard him issue orders to the Conga Line convoy leader.
 The Tribune reporter leaned forward around Tanya.
  "I'm still fitting pieces together," Tomlinson said. "That bit about
  flight insurance . . . Your brother-inlaw's an Air Line Pilots
  Association wheel, isn't he?"
  "Yes." Mel halted the car on the runway, a few feet short of the circle
  of lights around the big, stalled aircraft. There was plenty of action,
  he could see; beneath the aircraft fuselage, and on both sides, men were
  digging feverishly. The stocky form of Joe Patroni was visible directing
  activities. In a moment Mel would join him, after the return radio call
  from Danny Farrow at the Snow Desk.
  The reporter said thoughtfully, "I think I heard something awhile back.
  Didn't your brother-in-law make a big play to cancel insurance vending
  here-the way ALPA wants to-and you turned him down?"
  "I didn't turn him down. The airport board did, though I agreed with
  them."
  "If it isn't an unfair question, has what's happened tonight made you
  change your mind?"
 Tanya protested, "Surely this isn't the time . .
  "I'll answer that," Mel said. "I haven't changed my mind, at least not
  yet. But I'm thinking about it."
  Mel reasoned: the time for a change of heart about flight insurance-if
  there was to be one-was not now, in the height of emotion and the wake
  of tragedy. In a day or two, what had occurred tonight would be seen in
  better perspective. Mel's own decision-whether to urge the airport board
  to revise its policy, or not-should be made then. Meanwhile, no one could
  deny that tonight's events added strength to Vernon Demerest's-and the
  Air Line Pilots Association-arguments.
 Possibly, Mel supposed, a compromise might be
             AIRPORT           467

 worked out. An ALPA spokesman once confided to him that the pilots did not
 expect their anti-airport insurance campaign to be won, either outright or
 quickly; success would take years and "would have to be cut like bologna-a
 slice at a time." One slice at Lincoln International miglit be to prohibit
 use of non-supervised insurance vending machines, as some airports had
 already done. One state-Colorado-had outlawed the machines by Legislative
 Act. Other states, Mel knew, were considering similar legislation, though
 there was nothing to stop airports, meanwhile, from acting on their own.
  It was the insurance vending machine system which Mel liked least, even
  though D. 0. Guerrero's huge insurance policy tonight had not been bought
  that way. Then, if over-the-counter sales remained-for a few more years
  until public opinion could be molded-there would have to be more safeguards
  ...
  Even though Mel had resolved not to make a firm decision, it was obvious to
  himself which way his reasoning was going.
  The radio, still tuned to airport maintenance frequency, had been busy with
  calls between vehicles. Now it announced, "Snow Desk to mobile one."
 Mel responded, "Go ahead, Danny."
  "Four plows and three graders, with convoy leader, are on their way to
  runway three zero as instructed. What orders, please?"
  Mel chose his words carefully, aware that somewhere in an electronic maze
  beneath the control tower they were being recorded on tape. Later he might
  have to justify them. He also wanted to be sure there was no
  misunderstanding.
  "Mobile one to Snow Desk. All plows and graders, under direction of convoy
  leader, will stand by near A6reo-Mexican aircraft which is blocking runway
  three zero. Vehicles are not, repeat not, initially to obstruct the
  aircraft, which in a few minutes will attempt to move under its own power.
  But if that attempt fafls, plows and graders will be ordered in to push the
  aircraft sideways, and to clear the runway. This will be done at any cost,
  and with all speed. Runway three zero must be
 468          AIRPORT

 open for use in approximately thirty minutes, by which time the
 obstructing aircraft and all vehicles must be clear. I will coordinate
 with air traffic control to decide at what time the plows will be ordered
 in, if necessary. Acknowled-e, and confirm. that these instructions are
 understood ' 11
  Inside the car the reporter, Tomlinson, whistled softly. Tanya turned
  toward Mel, her eyes searching his face.
  On radio there were several seconds' silence, then Danny Farrow's voice.
  "I guess I understand. But I'd better be sure." He repeated the gist of
  the message, and Mel could imagine Danny sweating again, as he had been
  earlier.
  "Roger," Mel acknowledged. "But be clear about one thing. If those plows
  and graders go in, I'll give the order; no one else."
  "It's clear," Danny radioed. "And better you than me. Mel, I guess you've
  figured what that equipment of ours'll do to a 707."
  "It'll move it," Mel said tersely. "Right now that's the important
  thing." There was, Mel knew, other motorized equipment in Airport
  Maintenance, capable of the same kind of brute force clearing job; but
  using the Conga Line units, already on the runways, would be surer and
  faster. He signed off, and replaced the radio mike.
  Tomlinson said incredulously, "Move it! A six-million dollar airplane
  shoved sideways by snowplows! My God, you'll tear it to pieces! And
  afterward, the owners and insurers'll do the same to you."
  "I wouldn't be surprised," Mel said. "Of course, a lot depends on your
  point of view. If the owners and insurers were on that other flight
  coming in, they might be cheering."
  "Well," the reporter conceded, 'I'll grant you there are some decisions
  take a lot of guts."
  Tanya's hand reached down beside her and found Mel's. She said softly,
  emotion in her voice, "I'm cheering-for what you're doing now. Whatever
  happens after, I'll remember."
              AIRPORT          469

  The plows and graders which Mel had summoned were coming into sight,
  traveling fast down the runway, roof beacons flashing.
  "It may never happen." Mel squeezed Tanya's hand before releasing it,
  then opened the car door. "We've twenty minutes to hope it won't."

  When Mel Bakersfeld approached him, Joe Patroni was stomping his feet in
  an effort to be warm; the effort was largely unsuccessful despite the
  fleece-lined boots and heavy parka the TWA maintenance chief was wearing.
  Apart from the brief time Patroni had spent on the aircraft flight deck
  when the Afteo-Mexican captain and first officer departed, he had been
  continuously out in the storm since his arrival on the scene more than
  three hours ago. As well as being cold and physically tired from his
  various exertions of the day and night, his failure to move the stranded
  jet despite two attempts so far, had made his temper ready to erupt.
 It almost did, at the news of Mel's intention.
  With anyone else, Joe Patroni would have stormed and ranted. Because Mel
  was a close friend, Patrord removed the unlighted cigar he had been
  chewing, and eyed Mel unbelievingly. "Shove an undamaged airplane with
  snowplows! Are you out of your mind?"
 "No," Mel said. "I'm out of runways."
  Mel fell a momentary depression at the thought that no one in authority,
  other than himself, seemed to understand the urgency of clearing three
  zero, at any cost. Obviously, if he went ahead as he intended, there
  would be few who would support his action afterward. On the other hand,
  Mel had not the least doubt there would be plenty of people tomorrow with
  hindsight-including A6reo-Mexican officials-who would assert he could
  have done this or that, or that Flight Two should have landed on runway
  two five after all. Obviously his decision was to be a lonely one. It did
  not change Mel's conviction that it should be made.
  At the si(yht of the assembled plows and graders, now deDlov -d :In line
  on the runway, to their ritTht, Patroni dropped his cigar altogether. As
  he produced another he
 470          AIRPORT

 growled, "I'll save you from your own insanity. Keep those Dinky Toys of
 yours out of my hair and away from this airplane. In fifteen minutes,
 maybe less, I'll drive it out."
  Met shouted to make himself heard above the wind and roaring engines of
  vehicles around them. "Joe, let's be clear about one thing. When the
  tower tells us we're running out of time, that's it; there'll be no
  argument. People's lives are involved on the flight that's coming in. If
  you've engines running, they're to be shut down. At the same time all
  equipment and the men must move clear immediately. Make sure in advance
  that all your people understand. The plows will move on my order. If and
  when they do, they won't waste time."
  Patroni nodded gloomily. Despite his outburst, Mel thought, the
  maintenance chief's usual cocky self-assurance seemed abated.
  Mel returned to his car. Tanya and the reporter, huddled in their coats,
  had been standing outside, watching the work of digging around the
  aircraft. They got into the car with him, grateful for the warmth inside.
  Once more, Mel called ground control on radio, this time asking for the
  tower watch chief. After a brief pause, the tower chief's voice came on
  the air.
  In a few words Met explained his intention. What he sought from air
  traffic control now was an estimate of bow long he could wait before
  ordering the plows and graders to move. Once they did, it would take only
  minutes to have the obstructing aircraft clear.
  "The way it looks now," the tower chief said, "the flight in question
  will be here sooner than we thought. Chicago Center expects to hand over
  to our approach control in twelve minutes from now. After that we'll be
  controlling the flight for eight to ten minutes before landing, which
  would make time of touchdown, at latest, 0128."
  Mel checked his watch in the dim light from the dash. It showed 1: 0 1
  A.M.
  "A choice of which runway to use," the tower chief said, "will have to
  be made no later than five minutes
             AIRPORT           471

 before landing. After that, they'll be committed; we can't turn them."
  So What it meant, Mel calculated, was that his own final decision must be
  made in another seventeen minutes, perhaps less, depending on the handover
  time from Chicago Center to Lincoln approach control. There was even less
  time remaining than he had told Joe Patroai.
 Mel found he, too, was beginning to sweat.
  Should lie warn Patroni again, informing him of the reduced time? Mel
  decided not. The maintenance chief was already directing operations at the
  fastest pace he could. Nothing would be gained by harassing him further.
  "Mobile one to ground control," Mel radioed. "I'll need to be kept informed
  of exact status of the approaching flight. Can we hold this frequency
  clear?"
  "Affirmative," the tower chief said. "We've already moved regular traffic
  to another frequency. We'll keep you informed."
 Mel acknowledged and signed off.
 Beside him, Tanya asked, "What happens now?"
 "We wait." Mel checked his watch again.
 A minute went by. Two.
  Outside they could see men working, still digging feverishly near the front
  and on each side of the mired aircraft. With a flash of headlights, another
  truck arrived; men jumped down from its tailgate and hastened to join the
  others. Joe Patroni's stocky figure was moving constantly, instructing and
  exhorting.
  The plows and graders were still in line, waiting. In a way, Mel thought,
  like vultures.
  The reporter, Tomlinson, broke the silence inside the car.
  "I was just thinking. When I was a kid, which isn't all that long ago, most
  of this place was fields. In summer there were cows and com and barley.
  There was a grass airfield; small; nobody thought it would amount to much.
  If anyone traveled by air, they used the airport in the city."
  "That's aviation," Tanya said. She felt a momentary relief at being able to
  think and talk of something other
 472          AIRPORT

 than what they were waiting for. She went on, "Somebody told me once that
 working in aviation makes a lifetime seem longer because everything
 changes so often and so fast."
  Tomlinson objected, "Not everything's fast. With airports, the changes
  aren't fast enough. Isn't it true, Mr. Bakersfeld, that within three to
  four years there'll be chaos?"
  "Chaos is always relative," Mel said; the focus of his mind was still on
  the scene he could see through the car windshield. "In a good many ways
  we manage to live with it."
 "Aren't you dodging the question?"
 "Yes," he conceded. "I suppose I am."
  It was scarcely surprising, Mel thought. He was less concerned with
  aviation philosophy at this moment than with the immediacy of what was
  happening outside. But he sensed Tanya's need for a lessening of tension,
  even if illusory his awareness of her feelings was part of the empathy
  they seemed increasingly to share. He reminded himself, too, that it was
  a Trans America flight they were waiting for, and which might land safely
  or might not. Tanya was a part of Trans America, had helped with the
  flight's departure. In a real sense, of the three of them she had the
  most direct involvement.
  With an effort he concentrated on what Tomlinson had said.
  "It's always been true," Mel declared, "that in aviation, progress in the
  air has been ahead of progress on the ground. We sometimes think we'll
  catch up; in the mid-1960s we almost did but by and large we never do.
  The best we can manage, it seems, is not to lag too far behind."
  The reporter persisted, "What should we do about airports? What can we
  do?"
  "We can think more freely, with more imagination, for one thing. We
  should get rid of the railway station mind."
 "You believe we still have it?"
  Mel nodded. "Unfortunately, in a good many places. All our early airports
  were imitation railway stations
              AIRPORT          473

 because designers had to draw on experience from somewhere. and railroad
 experience was all they had. Aftetward, the habit remained. It's the reason,
 nowadays, we have so many 'straig ht line' airports, where terminals stretch
 on and on, and passengers must walk for mHes."
 Tomlinson asked, "Isn't some of that changing?"
  "Slowly, and in just a few places." As always, despite the pressures of the
  moment, Mel was warming to his theme. "A few airports are being built as
  circles-like doughnuts with car parking inside, instead of somewhere out
  beyond; with minimum distances for people to walk with aids like high-speed
  horizontal elevators; with airplanes brought close to passengers instead of
  the other way around. What it means is that airports are finally being
  thought of as special and distinct also as units instead of separate
  components. Creative ideas, even outlandish ones, are being listened to.
  Los Angeles is proposing a big, offshore seadrome; Chicago, a manmade
  airport island in Lake Michigan; nobody's scoffing. American Airlines has
  a plan for a giant hydraulic lift to stack airplanes one above the other
  for loading and unloading. But the changes are slow, they're not
  coordinated; we build airports like an unimaginative, patchwork quilt. It's
  as if phone subscribers designed and made their own telephones, then
  plugged them into a world-wide system."
  The radio cut abruptly across Mel's words. "Ground control to mobile one
  and city twenty-five. Chicago Center now estimates handoff of the flight in
  question to Lincoln approach control will be 0117."
  Mel's watch showed 1:06 A.m. The message meant that Flight Two was already
  a minute earlier than the tower chief had forecast. A minute less for Joe
  Patroni to work only eleven minutes to Mel's own decision.
  "Mobile one, is there any change in the status of runway three zero?"
 "Negative; no change."
  Mel wondered: was he cutting things too fine? He was tempted to direct the
  snowplows and graders to move now, then restrained himself. Responsibility
  was a
 474          AIRPORT

 two-way street, especially when it came to ordering the near-destruction
 of a six-million dollar aircraft on the ground. There was still a chance
 that Joe Patroni might make it, though with every second the possibility
 was lessening. In front of the stalled 707, Mel could see, some of the
 floodlights and other equipment were being moved clear. But the aircraft's
 engines had not yet been started.
  "Those creative people," Tomlinson queried, "the ones you were talking
  about. Who are they?"
  With only half his mind, Mel acknowledged, "It's hard to make a list."
  He was watching the scene outside. The remainder of the vehicles and
  equipment in front of the stalled A6reo-Mexican 707 bad now been moved
  clear, and Joe Patroni's stocky, snow-covered figure was climbing the
  boarding ramp, positioned near the aircraft's nose. Near the top, Patroni
  stopped, turned, and gestured; he appeared to be shouting to others
  below. Now Patroni opened the front fuselage door and went inside; almost
  at once another, slighter figure climbed the ramp and followed him. The
  aircraft door slammed. Others below trundled the ramp away.
  Inside the car, the reporter asked again, "Mr. Bakersfeld, could you name
  a few of those people-the most imaginative ones about airports and the
  future?"
 "Yes," Tanya said, "couldn't you?"
  Mel thought: it would be like a parlor game while the house was burning.
  All right, he decided if Tanya wanted him to, he would play.
  "I can think of some," Mel said. "Fox of Los Angeles; Joseph Foster of
  Houston, now with ATA of America. Alan Boyd in government; and Thomas
  Sullivan, Port of New York Authority. In the airlines: Halaby of Pan Am;
  Herb Godfrey of United. In Canada, John C. Parkin, In Europe-Pierre Cot
  of Air France; Count Castell in Germany. There are others."
  "Including Mel Bakersfeld," Tanya injected. "Aren't you forgetting him?"
  Tomlinson, who had been making notes, grunted. "I 'already put him down.
  It goes without saying."
              AIRPORT          475

  Mel smiled. But did it, he wondered, go without saying? Once, not long
  ago, the statement would have been true; but he knew that on the national
  scene he had slipped from view. When that happened, when you left the
  mainstream for whatever reason, you were apt to be forgotten quickly; and
  later, even if you wanted to, sometimes you never did get back. It was
  not that he was doing a less important job at Lincoln International, or
  doing it less well; as an airport general manager, Mel knew he was as
  good as ever, probably better. But the big contribution which he had once
  seemed likely to make no longer was in view. He realized that this was
  the second time tonight the same thought had occurred to him. Did it
  matter? Did he care? He decided; Yes, he did!
  "Look!" Tanya cried out. "They're starting the engines."
  The reporter's head came up; Mel felt his own excitement sharpen.
  Behind number three engine of the A6reo-Mexican 707, a puff of white-gray
  smoke appeared. Briefly it intensified, then whirled away as the engine
  fired and held. Now snow was streaming rear-ward in the jet blast.
  A second puff of smoke appeared behind number four engine, a moment later
  to be whisked away, snow following.
  "Ground control to mobile one and city twenty-five." Within the car the
  radio voice was so unexpected that Mel felt Tanya give a startled jump
  beside him. "Chicago Center advises revised handoff time of the flight
  in question will be 0 116 seven minutes from now. "
  Flight Two, Mel realized, was still coming in faster than expected. It
  meant they had lost another minute.
 Again Mel held his watch near the light of the dash.
  On the soft ground near the opposite side of the runway from their car,
  Patroni now had number two engine started. Number one followed. Mel said
  softly, "They could still make it." Then he remembered that all engines
  had been started twice before tonight, and both attempts to blast the
  stuck airplane free had failed.
 476          AIRPORT

  In front of the mired 707 a solitary figure with flashlight signal wands
  had moved out ahead to where he could be seen from the aircraft flight
  deck. The man with the wands was holdina them above his head, indicating
  "all clear." Mel could hear and feel the jet engines' thrum, but sensed
  they had not yet been advanced in power.
 Six minutes left. Why hadn't Patroni opened up?
  Tanya said tensely, "I don't think I can bear the waiting."
 The reporter shifted in his seat. "I'm sweating too."
  Joe Patroni was opening up! This was it! Mel could hear and feel the
  greater all-encom passing roar of engines. Behind the stalled
  A6reo-Mexican jet, great gusts of snow were blowing wildly into the
  darkness beyond the runway lights.
  "Mobile one," the radio demanded sharply, "this is ground control. Is
  there any change in status of runway three zero?"
  Patror~, Mel calculated by his watch, had three minutes left.
  "The airplane's still stuck." Tanya was peering intently through the car
  windshield. "They're using aU the engines, but it isn't moving."
  It was straining forward, though; that much Mel could see, even through
  the blowing snow. But Tanya was right. The aircraft wasn't moving.
  The snowplows and heavy graders had shifted closer together, their
  beacons flashing brightly.
  "Hold it!" Mel said on radio. "Hold it! Don't commit that flight coming
  in to runway two five. One way or the other, there'll be a change in
  three zero status any moment now."
  He switched the car radio to Snow Desk frequency, ready to activate the
  plows.
              AIRPORT          477

               14

 Ordinarily, after midnight, pressures in air traffic control relented
 slightly. Tonight they hadn't. Because of the storm, airlines at Lincoln
 International were continuing to dispatch and receive flights which were
 hours late. More often than not, their lateness was added to by the
 general runway and taxiway congestion still prevailing.
  Most members of the earlier eight-hour watch in air traffic control had
  ended their shift at midnight and gone wearily home. Newcomers on duty
  had taken their place. A few controllers, because of staff shortage and
  illness of others, had been assigned a spreadover shift which would end
  at 2 A.m. They included the tower watch chief; Wayne Tevis, the radar
  supervisor; and Keith Bakersfeld.
  Since the emotion-charged session with his brother, which ended abruptly
  and abortively an hour and a half ago, Keith had sought relief of mind
  by concentrating intensely on the radar screen in front of him. If he
  could maintain his concentration, he thought, the remaining time-the last
  he would ever have to fill-would pass quickly. Keith had continued
  handling east arrivals, working with a young assistant-a radar handoff
  man -seated on his left. Wayne Tevis was still supervising, riding his
  castor-equipped stool around the control room, propelled by his Texan
  boots, though less energetically, as Tevis's own duty shift neared an
  end.
  In one sense, Keith had succeeded in his concentration; yet in a strange
  way he bad not. It seemed almost as if his mind had split into two
  levels, like a duplex, and he was able to be in both at once On one level
  he was directing east arrivals traffic-at the moment, without problems.
  On the other, his thoughts were personal and introspective. It was not
  a condition which could last, but perhaps, Keith thought, his mind was
  like
 478          AIRPORT

 a light bulb about to fail and, for its last few minutes, burning
 brightest.
  The personal side of his thoughts was dispassionate now, and calmer than
  before; perhaps the session with Mel had achieved that, if nothing more.
  All things seemed ordained and settled. Keith's duty shift would end; he
  would leave this place; soon after, all waiting and all anguish would be
  over. He had the conviction that his own life and others' were already
  severed; he no longer belonged to Natalie or Mel, or Brian and Theo . .
  . or they to him. He belonged to the already dead-to the Redfems who had
  died together in the wreck of their Beech Bonanza; to little Valerie .
  . . her family. That was it! Why had he never thought of it that way
  before; realized that his own death was a debt he owed the Redferns? With
  continued dispassion, Keith wondered if he were insane; people who chose
  suicide were said to be, but either way it made no difference. His choice
  was between torment and peace; and before the light of morning, peace
  would come. Once more, as it had intermittently in the past few hours,
  his hand went into his pocket, fingering the key to room 224 of the
  O'Hagan Inn.
  All the while, on the other mental level, and with traces of his old
  flair, he coped with cast arrivals.
  Awareness of the crisis with Trans America Flight Two came to Keith
  gradually.
  Lincoln air traffic control had been advised of Flight Two's intention
  to return there-almost an hour ago, and seconds after Captain Anson
  Harris's decision was made known. Word had come by "hot line" telephone
  directly from Chicago Center supervisor to the tower watch chief, after
  similar notification through Cleveland and Toronto centers. Initially
  there had been little to do at Lincoln beyond advising the airport
  management, through the Snow Desk, of the flight's request for runway
  three zero.
  Later, when Flight Two had been taken over from Cleveland, by Chicago
  Center, more specific preparations were begun.
 Wayne Tevis, the radar supervisor, was alerted by the
             AIRPORT           479

 tower chief, who went personally to the radar room to inform Tevis of
 Flight Two's condition, its estimated arrival time, and the doubt about
 which runway-two five or three zero-was to be used for landing.
  At the same time, ground control was notifying airport emergency services
  to stand by and, shortly after, to move with their vehicles onto the
  airfield.
  A ground controller talked by radio telephone with Joe Patroni to check
  that Patroni had been advised of the urgent need for runway three zero.
  He had.
  Contact was then established, on a reserve radio frequency, between the
  control tower and the flight deck of the A6reo-Mexican jet which blocked
  the runway. The setup was to ensure that when Patroni was at the air-
  craft's controls, there could be instant two-way communication, if
  needed.
  In the radar room, when he bad listened to the tower chief's news, Wayne
  Tevis's initial reaction was to glance at Keith. Unless duties were
  changed around, it would be Keith, in charge of east arrivals, who would
  accept Flight Two from Chicago Center, and monitor the flight in.
  Tevis asked the tower chief quietly, "Should we take Keith off; put
  someone else on?"
  The older man hesitated. He remembered the earlier emergency tonight
  involving the Air Force KC-135. He bad removed Keith from duty then, on
  a pretext, and afterward wondered if he had been too hasty. When a man
  was teeter-tottering between self-assurance and the loss of it, it was
  easy to send the scales the wrong way without intending to. The tower
  chief had an uneasy feeling, too, of having blundered into something
  private between Keith and Mel Bakersfeld when the two of them were
  talking earlier in the corridor outside. He could have left them alone
  for a few minutes longer, but hadn't.
  The tower watch chief was tired himself, not only from the trying shift
  tonight, but from others which preceded it. He remembered reading
  somewhere recently that new air traffic systems, being readied for the
  mid-1970s, would halve controllers' work loads, thereby
 480          AIRPORT

 reducing occupational fatigue and nervous breakdowns. The tower c1iief
 remained skeptical. He doubted if, in air traffic control, pressures would
 ever lighten; if they eased in one way, he thought, they would increase
 in another. It made him sympathize with those who, like Keith-still gaunt,
 pate, strained-had proved victims of the system.
  Still in an undertone, Wayne Tevis repeated, "Do I take him off, or not?"
  The tower chief shook his head. Low-voiced, he answered, "Let's not push
  it. Keep Keith on, but stay close."
  It was then that Keith, observing the two with heads together, guessed
  that something critical was coming up. He was, after all, an old hand,
  familiar with signals of impending trouble.
  Instinct told him, too, that the supervisors' conversation was in part,
  about himself. He could understand why. Keith had no doubt he would be
  relieved from duty in a few minutes from now, or shifted to a less vital
  radar position. He found himself not caring.
  It was a surprise when Tevis-without shuffling duties-began warning all
  watch positions of the expected arrival of Trans America Tw'o, in
  distress, and its priority handling.
  Departure control was cautioned: Route all departures well clear of the
  flight's anticipated route in.
  To Keith, Tevis expounded the runway problem-the uncertainty as to which
  runway was to be used, and the need to postpone a decision until the last
  possible moment.
  "You work out your own plan, buddy boy," Tevis instructed in his nasal
  Texas drawl. "And after the handover, stay with it. We'll take everything
  else off your hands."
  At first, Keith nodded agreement, no more perturbed than he had been
  before. Automatically, he began to calculate the flight pattern he would
  use. Such plans were always worked out mentally. There was never time to
  commit them to paper; besides, the need for improvisation usually turned
  up.
             AIRPORT           481

  As soon as he received the flight from Chicago Center, Keith reasoned,
  he would head it generally toward runway three zero, but with sufficient
  leeway to swing the aircraft left-though without drastic turns at low
  altitude-if runway two five was forced on them as the final choice.
  He calculated: He would have the aircraft under approach control for
  approximately ten minutes. Tevis had already advised him that not until
  the last five, probably, would they know for sure about the runway. It
  was slicing things fine, and there would be sweating in the radar room,
  as well as in the air. But it could be managed-just. Once more, in his
  mind, Keith went over the planned flight path and compass headings.
  By then, more definite reports had begun to filter, unofficially, through
  the tower. Controllers passed information to each other as work gaps
  permitted . . . The flight had had a mid-air explosion. It was limping
  in with structural damage and injured people ... Control of the airplane
  was in doubt. The pilots needed the longest runway-which might or might
  not be available ... Captain Demerest's warning was repeated: ... on two
  five a broken airplane and dead people . . . The captain had sent a
  savage message to the airport manager. Now, the manager was out on three
  zero, trying to get the runway cleared . . . The time available was
  shortening.
  Even among the controllers, to whom tension was as commonplace as
  traffic, there was now a shared nervous anxiety.
  Keith's radar handoff man, seated alongside, passed on the news which
  came to him in snatches. As he did, Keith's awareness and apprehension
  grew. He didn't want this, or any part of it! There was nothing he sought
  to prove, or could; nothing he might retrieve, even if he handled the
  situation well. And if he didn't, if he mishandled it, he might send a
  planeload of people to their deaths, as lie had done once before.
  Across the radar room, on a direct line, Wayne Tevis took.a telephone
  call from the tower watch chief. A few
 482          AIRPORT

 minutes ago the chief bad gone one floor above, into the tower cab, to
 remain beside the ground controller.
  Hanging up, Tevis propelled his chair alongside Keith. "The old man just
  had word from center. Trans America Two-three minutes from handoff."
  The supervisor moved on to departure control, checking that outward
  traffic was being routed clear of the approaching flight.
  The man on Keith's left reported that out on the airfield they were still
  trying frantically to shift the stranded jet blocking runway three zero.
  They had the engines running, but the airplane wouldn't move. Keith's
  brother (tbe handoff man said) had taken charge, and if the airplane
  wouldn't move on its own, was going to smash it to pieces to clear the
  runway. But everybody was asking: was there time?
  If Mel thought so, Keith reasoned, there probably was. Mel coped, he
  managed things; he always had. Keith couldn't cope-at least not always,
  and never in the same way as Mel. It was the difference between them.
 Almost two minutes had gone by.
  Alongside Keith, the handoff man said quietly, "They're coming on the
  scope." On the edge of the radarscope Keith could see the double blossom
  radar distress signal-unmistakably Trans America Two.
  Keith wanted out! He couldn't do it! Someone else must take over; Wayne
  Tevis could himself. There was still time.
  Keith swung away from the scope looking for Tevis. The supervisor was at
  departure control, his back toward Keith.
  Keith opened his mouth to call. To his horror, no words came. He tried
  again . . . the same.
  He realized: It was as in the dream, his nightmare; his voice had failed
  him . . . But this was no dream; this was reality! Wasn't it? ... Still
  struggling to articulate, panic gripped him.
  On a panel above the scope, a flashing white light indicated that Chicago
  Center was calling. The handoff man picked up a direct line phone and
  instructed, "Go
              AIRPORT          483

 ahead, center." He turned a selector, cutting in a speaker overhead so
 that Keith could hear.
  "Lincoln, Trans America Two is thirty miles southeast of the airport.
  He's on a heading of two five zero."
  "Roger, center. We have him in radar contact. Change him to our
  frequency." The handoff man replaced the phone.
  Center, they knew, would now be instructing the flight to change radio
  frequency, and probably wishing them good luck. It usually happened that
  way when an aircraft was in trouble; it seemed the least that anyone
  could do from the secure comfort of the ground. In this isolated,
  comfortably warm room of low-key sounds, it was difficult to accept that
  somewhere outside, high in the night and darkness, buffeted by wind and
  storm, its survival in doubt, a crippled airliner was battling home.
  The east arrivals radio frequency came alive. A harsh voice, unmistakably
  Vernon Demerest's; Keith hadn't thought about that until this moment.
  "Lincoln approach control, this is Trans America Two, maintai i g six
  thousand feet, heading two five zero."
  The handoff man was waiting expectantly. It was Keith's moment to
  acknowledge, to take over. But he wanted out! Wayne Tevis was still
  turned away! Keith's speech wouldn't come.
  "Lincoln approach control," the voice from Trans America Two grated
  again, "where in hell are you?"
 Where in hell ...
 Why wouldn't Tevis turn?
  Keith seethed with sudden rage. Damn Tevis! Damn air traffic control!
  Damn his dead father, Wild Blue Bakersfeld, who led his sons into a
  vocation Keith hadn't wanted to begin with! Damn Mel, with his infuri-
  ating self-sufficient competence! Damn here and nowl Damn evervthing! .
  . .
  The handoft man was looking at Keith curiously. At any moment Trans
  America Two would call again. Keith knew that he was trapped. Wondering
  if his voice would work, he keyed his mike.
  "Trans America Two," Keith said, "this is Lincoln approach control. Sorry
  about the delay. We're still
 484          AIRPORT

 hoping for runway three zero; we shall know in three to five minutes."
  A growled acknowledgment, "Roger, Lincoln. Keep us informed."
  Keith was concentrating now; the extra level of his mind had ctosed. He
  forgot Tevis, his father, Mel, himself. All else was excluded but the
  problem of Flight Two.
  He radioed clearly and quietly, "Trans America Two, you are now
  twenty-five miles east of the outer marker. Begin descent at your
  discretion. Start a right turn to heading two six zero . . ."

  One floor above Keith, in the glass-walled tower cab, the ground
  controller had advised Mel Bakersfeld that handoff from Chicago Center
  had occurred.
  Mel radioed back, "Snowplows and graders have been ordered to move, and
  clear the A6reo-Mexican aircraft from the runway. Instruct Patroni to
  shut down all engines immediately. Tell him-if he can, get clear himself;
  if not, hold on tight. Stand by for advice when runway is clear."
  On a second frequency, the tower chief was already informing Joe Patroni.

               15

 Even before it happened, Joe Patroni knew he was running out of time.
  He had deliberately not started the engines of the Afteo-Mexican 707
  until the latest possible moment, wanting the work of clearing under and
  around the aircraft to continue as long as it could.
  When he realized that he could wait no longer, Patroni made a final
  inspection. What he saw gave him grave misgivings.
              AIRPORT          485

  The landing gear was still not as clear from surrounding earth, mud, and
  snow as it should be. Nor were the trenches, inclining upward from the
  present level of the main wheels to the hard surface of the nearby
  taxiway, as wide or deep as he had wanted. Another fifteen minutes would
  have done it.
 Patroni knew he didn't have the time.
  Reluctantly he ascended the boarding ramp, to make his second attempt at
  moving the mired aircraft, now with himself at the controls.
  He shouted to Ingram, the A6rco-Mexican foreman, "Get everybody clear!
  We're starting up."
 From under the aircraft, figures began to move out.
  Snow was still falling, but more lightly than for several hours.
  Joe Patroni called again from the boarding.ramp. "I need somebody with
  me on the flight deck, but let's keep the weight down. Send me a skinny
  guy who's cockpit qualified."
 He let himself into the aircraft's forward door.
  Inside, through the flight deck windows, Patroni could see Mel
  Bakersfeld's airport car, its bright yellow coloring reflected through
  the darkness. The car was parked on the runway, to the left. Near it was
  the line of snowplows and graders-a reminder, if he needed one, that he
  had only a few minutes more.
  The maintenance chief had reacted with shocked disbelief when Mel
  announced his plan to shove the A6reo-Mexican aircraft clear of runway
  three zero by force, if necessary. The reaction was natural, but was not
  through indifference to the safety of those aboard Trans America Flight
  Two. Joe Patroni lived with thoughts of aircraft safety, which was the
  object of his daily work, It was simply that the idea of reducing an
  undamaged aircraft to a pile of scrap metal, or something close to it,
  was near-impossible for him to grasp. In Patroni's eyes, an aircraft-any
  aircraft-represented devotion, skill, engineering know-how, hours of
  labor, and sometimes love. Almost anything was better than its deliberate
  destruction. Almost anything.
 Patroni intended to save the airplane if he could.
 486          AIRPORT

  Behind him, the fuselage door opened, and slammed closed.
  A young mechanic, small and spare, came forward to the flight deck,
  shedding snow. Joe Patroni had already slipped off his parka and was
  strapping himself into the left seat.
 "What's your name, son?"
 "Rolling, sir."
  Patroni chuckled. "That's what we're trying to get this airplane doin'.
  Maybe you're an omen."
  As the mechanic removed his own parka and slid into the right seat,
  Patroni looked through the window behind his left shoulder. Outside, the
  boarding ramp was being trundled clear.
  The interphone chimed, and Patroni answered. The foreman, Ingram, was
  calling from below. "Ready to start when you are."
 Joe Patroni glanced sideways. "All set, son?"
 The mechanic nodded.
 "Number three starter switch-ground start."
  The mechanic snapped a switch; Patroni ordered on interphone, "Pressurize
  the manifold!"
  From a power cart below, air under pressure whined. The maintenance chief
  moved a start level to "idle"; the young mechanic, monitoring
  instruments, reported, "Light-up on number three." The engine note became
  a steady roar.
  In smooth succession, engines four, two, and one followed.
  On interphone, Ingram's voice was diminished by a background of wind and
  jet whine. "Power cart's clear. So's everything else down here."
  "Okay," Patroni shouted back. "Disconnect interphone, and get the hell
  clear yourself."
  He told his cockpit companion, "Sit tight, son, and hang on." The
  maintenance chief shifted his cigar, which contrary to regulations he had
  lighted a.few minutes earlier, so that it was now jauntily in a corner
  of his mouth. Then, with chunky fingers spread, he eased the four main
  throttles forward.
  With power at midpoint, the clamor of all four engines grew.
              AIRPORT          487

  Ahead of the aircraft, in the snow, they could see a ground crewman with
  raised, lighted signal wands. Patroni grinned, "If we come out fast, I hope
  that guy's a good runner."
  All brakes were off, flaps slightly down to engender lift. Tbe mechanic
  held the control yoke back. Patroni worked the rudder controls alternately,
  hoping by sideways strain to help the airplane forward.
  Glancing left, he saw Mel Bakersfeld's car was still in position. From an
  earlier calculation, Joe Patroni knew there could be only minutes-perhaps
  less than a minute-lef t.
  Now, power was past three quarters. From the highpitched note of engines,
  he could tell it was more power than the A6reo-Mexican captain had used
  during the earlier attempt to get free. Vibration told why. Normally, at
  this setting, the airplane would be unimpeded, bowling fast down a runway.
  Because it was not, it was shaking severely, with every portion of its
  upper area straining forward, resisting the anchoring effect of the wheels
  below. The airplane's inclination to stand on its nose was unmistakable.
  The mechanic glanced uneasily sideways.
  Patroni saw the glance and grunted. "She'd better come out now, or she's a
  dead duck."
  But the aircraft was not moving. Obstinately, as it had for hours, and
  through two earlier attempts, it was remaining stuck.
  In the hope of rocking the wheels free, Patroni slackened engine power,
  then increased it.
 Still the aircraft failed to move.
  Joe Patroni's cigar, moist from previous chewing, had gone out.
  Disgustedly, he flung it down and reached for another. His breast pocket
  was empty; the cigar had been his last.
  He swore, and returned his right hand to the throttles. Moving them still
  farther forward, he snarled, "Come out! Come out, you son of a bitch!"
  "Mr. Patroni!" the mechanic warned. "She won't take much more."
  Abruptly, the overhead radio speakers came alive. The tower chief's voice.
  "Joe Patroni, aboard A6reo-
   488          AIRPORT

 Mexican. This is ground control. We have a message from Mr. Bakersfeld:
 'There is no more time. Stop all engines.' Repeat-stop all engines."
  Glancing out, Patroni saw the plows and graders were already moving. They
  wouldn't close in, he knew, until the aircraft engines were stopped. But
  he remembered Mel's warniDg-. When the tower tells us we're out of time,
  there'll be no argument.
 He thought: Who's arguing?
  The radio again, urgently: "Joe Patroni, do you read? Acknowledge."
  "Mr. Patroni!" the mechanic shouted. "Do you hear? We have to shut down!"
  Patroni shouted back, "Can't hear a danin thing, son. Guess there's too
  much noise."
  As any seasoned maintenance man knew, you always had a minute more than
  the panic-prone sales types in the front office said you had.
  In the worst way, though, he needed a cigar. Suddenly Joe Patroni
  remembered-hours ago, Mel Bakersfeld bet him a box of cigars he couldn't
  get this airplane free tonight.
  He called across the cockpit, "I gotta stake in this, too. Let's go for
  broke." In a single, swift motion he shoved the throttles forward to
  their limit.
  The din and vibration had seemed great before; now they were
  overwhelming. The airplane shuddered as if it might fall apart. Joe
  Patroni kicked the rudder pedals hard again.
  Around the cockpit, engine warning lights flashed on. Afterward, the
  mechanic described the effect as "like a pinball machine at Vegas."
  Now, alarm in his voice, he called, "Exhaust gas temperature seven
  hundred."
  The radio speakers were still emitting orders, including something about
  Patroni getting clear himself. He supposed he would have to. IFEs hand
  tensed to close the throttles.
  Suddenly the airplane shifted forward. At first, it moved slowly. Then,
  with startling speed, they were hurtling toward the taxiway. The mechanic
  shouted a
              AIRPORT          489

 warning. As Patroni snatched back all four throttles, he commandcd, "Haps
 up!" Glancing below and ahead, both men had an impression of blurred
 figures running.
  Fifty feet from the taxiway, they were still moving fast. Unless turned
  promptly, the airplane would cross the hard surface and roll into piled
  snow on the other side. As he felt the tires reach pavement, Patroni ap-
  plied left brakes hard and slammed open the two starboard throttles.
  Brakes and engines responded, and the aircraft swung sharply left, in a
  ninety-degree arc. Halfway around, he slid back the two throttles and ap-
  plied all brakes together. The A6reo-Mexican 707 rolled forward briefly,
  then slowed and halted.
  Joe Patroni grinned. They had stopped with the aircraft parked neatly,
  in the center of the taxiway paralleling runway three zero.
  The runway, two hundred feet away, was no longer blocked.

  In Mel Bakersfeld's car, on the runway, Tanya cried, "He's done it! He's
  done it!"
  Beside her, Mel was already radioing the Snow Desk, ordering plows and
  graders to get clear.
  Seconds earlier, Mel had been calling angrily to the tower, demanding for
  the third time that Joe Patroni stop engines immediately. Mel had been
  assured the messages were relayed, but Patroni ignored them. The heat of
  Mel's anger still remained; even now, he could cause Joe Patroni serious
  trouble for the latter's failure to obey, or even acknowledge, an airport
  management order in a matter of urgency and safety. But Mel knew he
  wouldn't. Patroni had gotten away with it, and no one with sense
  quarreled with that kind of success. Also, Mel knew, after tonight there
  would be one more item to add to the Patroni legend.
 The plows and graders were already moving.
  Mel switched his radio back to tower frequency. "Mobile one to ground
  control. Obstructing aircraft has been moved from runway three zero.
  Vehicles following. I am inspecting for debris."
 Mel shone a spotlight from his car over the runway
 490          AIRPORT

 surface, Tanya and the reporter, Tomlinson, peered with him. Sometimes
 incidents like tonight's resulted in work crews leaving tools or debris-a
 hazard to aircraft taking off or landing. The light showed nothing beyond an
 irregular surface of snow.
  The last of the snowplows was turning off at the nearest intersection. Mel
  accelerated and followed. All three in the car were emotionally drained
  from tensions of the past few minutes, but aware that a greater cause for
  tension was still to come.
  As they swung left, behind the plows, Mel reported, "Runway three zero
  clear and open."

               16

 Trans Ameiica Flight Two, The Golden Argosy, was ten miles out, in cloud, at
 ftfteen hundred feet.
  Anson Harris, after another brief respite, had resumed flying.
  The Lincoln International approach controller-with a voice vaguely familiar
  to Vernon Demerest, though he hadn't stopped to think about it-had guided
  them thus far on a series of courses, with gentle turns as they descended.
  They had been, both pilots realized, skillfully positioned so that a final
  commitment toward either of the two possible runways could be made without
  major maneuvering. But the commdtment would have to be made at any moment.
  Tension of the pilots grew as that moment approached.
  A few minutes earlier, Second Officer Cy Jordan had returned to the flight
  deck, on Demerest's orders, to prepare an estimate of gross landing weight,
  allowing for the fuel they had used, and that remaining. Now, having done
  everything else necessary at his ffight engineer's
             AIRPORT           491

 position, Jordan bad gone back to his emergency landing station in the
 forward passenger compartment.
  Anson Harris, aided by Demerest, had already gone through emergency trim
  procedures in preparation for landing with their jammed stabilizer.
  As they finished, Dr. Compagno appeared briefly behind them. "I thought
  you'd like to know-your stewardess, Miss Meighen, is holding her own. If
  we can get her to a hospital soon, I'm fairly sure she'll come through."
  Demerest, finding it hard to conceal his sudden emotion, had resorted to
  not speaking. It was Anson Harris who balf-turned and acknowledged,
  "Thank you, Doctor. We've only a few minutes to go."
  In both passenger cabins, all precautions which could be taken were
  complete. The injured, with the exception of Gwen Meighen, had been
  strapped in seats. Two of the doctors had stationed themselves on either
  side of Gwen, ready to support her as they landed. Other passengers had
  been shown how to brace themselves for what might prove an exceptionally
  heavy landing, with unknown consequences.
  The old lady stowaway, Mrs. Quonsett, a little frightened at last, was
  tightly clutching the hand of her oboe player friend. Weariness, too, was
  creeping over her from the exertions of an exceedingly full day.
  A short time earlier her spirits had been buoyed by a brief message from
  Captain Demerest, relayed through a stewardess. The captain thanked her,
  the stewardess said, for what she had done to help; since Mrs. Quonsett
  had kept her part of their bargain, after they landed Captain Demerest
  would keep his by arranging passage for her to New York. How wonderful
  of that dear man, Ada Ouonsett thought, to remember that when he had so
  much else to think of! . . . But now she wondered: would she be around
  to make the trip at all?
  Judy, the niece of Customs Inspector Standish, bad once more been holding
  the baby whose parents were in the seats beside her. Now she passed the
  child back to its mother. The baby-least concerned of anyone aboard the
  airplane-was asleep.
 On the flight deck, in the right-hand seat, Vernon Dem- 492          AIRPORT

 erest checked the weight information the second officer had given him
 against a weight-airspeed plaque on the pilots' instrument panel. He
 announced tersely, "Bug speed 150 knots."
  It was the speed at which they must pass over the airfield boundary,
  allowing both for weight and the jammed stabilizer.
  Harris nodded. Looking glum, he reached out to set a warning pointer on
  his airspeed indicator. Demerest did the same.
  Even on the longest runway their landing would be risky.
  The speed-more than 170 miles per hour-was diabolically fast for landing.
  Both pilots knew that it would mean an exceptionally long run after
  touchdown, with slow deceleration because of their heavy weight. Thus
  their weight became a dual liability. Yet to approach at anything less
  than the speed which Demerest had just computed would be suicidal; the
  aircraft would stall, and plummet earthward out of control.
 Demerest reached for his radio mike.
  Before he could transmit, the voice of Keith Bakersfeld announced, "Trans
  America Two, turn right on heading two eight five. Runway three zero is
  open."
 "Jesus C hrist!" Dernerest said. "And about time!"
 He keyed his mike and acknowledged.
  Together, both pilots ran through a pre-landing check list.
  There was a "thud" through the airplane as their landing gear went down.
  "I'm going in low," Harris said, "and we'll touch down early. We're still
  going to need every bit of real estate they have down there."
  Demerest grunted agreement. He was peering ahead, straining to penetrate
  cloud and darkness, to catch a glimpse of the airport lights which must
  be visible soon. His thoughts, despite his own outward calm, were on the
  damage to the plane. They still didn't know exactly how bad it was, or
  how it might have worsened during the rough flight in. There was that
  damned great hole; then there would be the heavy, fast landing ... God!-
  the whole tail assembly might come ojy . . . If it does,
             AIRPORT           493

 Dernerest thought, at a hundred and fifty knots we've had it . . . That
 son-of-a-bitch who had set obF the bomb! A pity he had died! Dernerest
 would like to have his hands on him now, to personally rip out his
 stinking life ...
  Beside him, Anson Harris, making an Instrument Landing System approach,
  increased the rate of descent from seven hundred to eight hundred feet
  per minute.
  Dernerest wished desperately he were flying himself. With anyone else but
  Harris-with a younger or less senior captain-Demerest would have taken
  full command. As it was, he couldn't fault Harris for a thing ... He
  hoped the landing would be the same way ... His thoughts went back to the
  passenger cabin. Gwen, we're almost in! Keep on living! His conviction
  about their child, that he and Gwen and Sarah would work out something,
  was as strong as ever.
  On radio, Keith Bakersfeld's voice reported, "Trans America Two, your
  course and descent look fine. There is medium to light snow on runway.
  Wind northwest, thirty knots. You are number one to land."
  Seconds later they emerged from cloud to see runway lights dead ahead.
  "Lincoln approach control," Demerest radioed, "we have the runway in
  sight."
  "Roger, Flight Two." Relief in the controller's voice was unmistakable.
  "The tower clears you to land; monitor their frequency when ready. Good
  luck, and out."
  Vernon Dernerest clicked his mike button twice-an airman's shorthand
  "thank you."
  Anson Harris ordered crisply, "Landing lights on. Fifty degrees flap."
 Demerest complied.
 They were coming down fast.
 Harris warned, "I may need help with rudder."
  "Right." Dernerest set his feet on the rudder pedals. When speed came
  off, the rudder-because of the destroyed boost mechanism-would be stiff,
  like a car's power steering which had failed, only more so. After
  landing, both pilots might need to exert force, together, to maintain
  directional control.
 They zoomed over the airfield edge, runway lights
 494          AIRPORT

 strung ahead like strands of converging pearls. On either side were piled
 banks of snow; beyond them, darkness. Harris had made his approach as low
 as he dared; the nearness to the ground revealed their exceptional speed.
 To both pilots, the mile and three quarters of runway in front had never
 looked shorter.
  Harris flared out, leveling the aircraft, and closed all four throttles.
  The jet thrum lessened; an urgent, shrieking wind replaced it. As they
  crossed the runway's edge, Vernon Demerest had a blurred impression of
  clustered emergency vehicles which would, he knew, follow them down the
  runway. He thought: We damned well might need them! Hang on, Gwen!
  They were still floating, their speed scarcely diminished.
  Then the aircraft was down. Heavily. Still traveling fast.
  Swiftly, Harris raised wing spoilers and slammed thrust reverse levers
  upward. With a roar, the jet engines reversed themselves, their
  force-acting as a brake -now exerted in an opposite direction to the
  airplane's travel.
  They had used three quarters of the runway and were slowing, but not
  enough.
  Harris called, "Right rudder!" The aircraft was veering to the left. With
  Demerest and Harris shoving together, they maintained direction. But the
  runway's forward limit-with piled snow and a cavern of darkness
  beyond-was coming up fast.
  Anson Harris was applying toe brakes hard. Metal was straining, rubber
  screaming. Still the darkness neared. Then they were slowing . . .
  gradually
 slowing more ...
  Flight Two came to rest three feet from the runway's end.
              AIRPORT          495

               17

 By the radar room clock, Keith Bakersfeld could see that another half hour
 of his shift remained. He didn't care.
  He pushed back his chair from the radar console, unplugged his headset,
  and stood up. He looked around him, knowing it was for the last time.
 "Hey!" Wayne Tevis said. "What gives?"
  "Here," Keith told him. "Take this. Somebody else may need it." He thrust
  the headset at Tevis, and went out.
 Keith knew he should have done it years ago.
  He felt a strange lightheadedness, almost a sense of relief. In the
  corridor outside he wondered why.
  It was not because he had guided in Flight Two; he bad no illusions about
  that. Keith had performed competently, but anyone else on duty could have
  done as well, or better. Nor-as he had known in advance-did anything done
  tonight wipe out, or counterbalance, what had gone before.
  It didn't matter, either, that he had overcome his mental block of ten
  minutes ago. Keith hadn't cared at the time; he simply wanted out.
  Nothing that had happened since had changed his mind.
  Perhaps, lie thought, there had been a purging in his own sudden anger
  of a few minutes ago, in the admission, never faced before even in
  private thoughts, of how much he hated aviation, and always had. Now,
  fifteen years late, he wished he had faced the fact long ago.
  He entered the controllers' locker room, with its wooden benches and
  cluttered notice board. Keith opened his locker and put on his outdoor
  clothes. There were a few personal things on the locker shelves; he
  ignored them. All he wanted was the color snapshot of Natalie; he peeled
  it carefully from the inside surface of
 496          AIRPORT

 the metal door . . . Natalie in a bikini; laughing; her impudent pixyish
 face, and freckles; her hair streaming ... When lie looked at it, he
 wanted to cry. Behind the photograph was her note he bad treasured:

         I'm glad we had our ration With love and passion.

 Keith pocketed both. Someone else could clear the other things out. There
 was nothing he wanted to remind hira of this place-ever.
 He stopped,
  He stood there, realizing that without intending to, he had come to a new
  decision. He wasn't sure of everything the decision involved, or how it
  might seem tomorrow, or even if he could live with it beyond then. If he
  couldn't live with it, there was still an escape clause; a way out-the
  drugstore pillbox in his pocket.
  For tonight, the main thing was: he was not going to the O'Hagan Inn. He
  was going home.
  But there was one thing he knew: If there was to be a future, it must be
  removed from aviation. As others who had quit air traffic control before
  him had discovered, that could prove the hardest thing of all.
  And even if that much could be overcome-face it now, Keith told
  himself-there would be times when he would be reminded of the past.
  Reminded of Lincoln International; of Leesburg; of what had happened at
  both places. Whatever else you escaped, if you had a whole mind, there
  was no escaping memory. The memory of the Redfern family who had died ...
  of little Valerie Redfern . . . would never leave him.
  Yet memory could adapt-couldn't 0-to time, to circumstance, to the
  reality of living here and now. The Redferns were dead. The Bible said:
  Let the dead bury their dead. What had happened, was done.
  Keith wondered if . . . from now on he could remember the Redferns with
  sadness, but do his best to make the living-Natahe, his own children-his
  first concern.
 He wasn't sure that it would work. He wa&t sure
             AIRPORT           497

 that he had the moral or the physical strength. It had been a long time
 since he was sure of anything. But he could try.
 He took the tower elevator down.
  Outside, on his way to the FAA parking lot, Keith stopped. On sudden
  impulse, knowing he might regret it later, he took the pillbox from his
  pocket and emptied its contents into the snow.

               18

 From his car, which he bad parked on the nearby taxiway after quitting
 runway three zero, Mel Bakersfeld could see that the pilots of Trans America
 Flight Two were wasting no time in taxiing to the terminal. The aircraft's
 lights, now halfway across the airfield, were still visible, moving fast. On
 his radio, switched to ground control, Mel could hear other flights being
 halted at taxiway and runway intersections to let the damaged airliner pass.
 The injured were stflI aboard. Flight Two had been instructed to bead
 directly for gate forty-seven where medical help, ambulances, and company
 staff were waiting.
  Mel watched the aircraft's lights diminish, and merge with the galaxy of
  terminal lights beyond.
  Airport emergency vehicles, which had not after all been required, were
  dispersing from the runway area.
  Tanya and the Tribune reporter, Tomlinson, were both on their way back to
  the terminal. They were driving with Joe Patroni, who had handed over the
  A6reo-Mexican 707 for someone else to taxi to the hangars.
  Tanya wanted to be at gate forty-seven for the disembarking of passengers
  from Flight Two. It was likely she would be needed.
 498          AIRPORT

  Before leaving, she had asked Mel quietly, "Are you still coming home?"
 "If it isn't too late," he said, "I'd like to."
  He watched while Tanya pushed a strand of red hair back from her face.
  She had looked at him with her direct, clear eyes and smiled. "It's not
  too late."
  They agreed to meet at the main terminal entrance in three quarters of
  an hour.
  Tomlinson's purpose was to interview Joe Patroni, and after that the crew
  of Trans America Flight Two. The crew-and Patroni, no doubt-would be
  heroes within a few hours. ne dramatic story of the flight's peril and
  survival, Mel suspected, would eclipse his own pronouncements on the more
  mundane subject of the airport's problems and deficiencies.
  Though not entirely, perhaps. Tomlinson, to whom Mel had entrusted his
  opinions, was a thoughtful, intelligent reporter who might decide to link
  present dramatics with the equally serious long-term view.
  The A6reo-Mexican 707, Mel saw, was now being moved away. The airplane
  appeared undamaged, but would undoubtedly be washed down and inspected
  thoroughly before resuming its interrupted flight to Acapulco.
  The assortment of service vehicles which had stayed with the aircraft
  during its ordeal by mud were following.
  There was no reason for Mel not to go himself. He would-in a moment or
  two; but for the second time tonight he found the airfield's loneliness,
  its closeness to the elemental part of aviation, a stimulus to thought.
  It was here, a few hours ago, Mel remembered, that he had had an
  instinct, a premonition, of events moving toward some disastrous end.
  Well, in a way they had. The disaster had happened, though through good
  fortune it had been neither complete, nor had the airport's facilities-or
  lack of them-been directly responsible.
  But the disaster could have involved the airport; and the airport in turn
  might have caused complete catastrophe-through inadequacies which Mel had
  foreseen and had argued, vainly, to correct.
 For Lincoln International was obsolescent.
              AIRPORT          499

  Obsolescent, Mel knew, despite its good management, and gleaming glass and
  chrome; despite its air traffic density, its record-breaking passenger
  volume, its Niagara of air freight, its expectations of even more of
  everything, and its boastful title, "Aviation Crossroads of the World."
  The airport was obsolescent because-as had happened so often in the short
  six decades of modem aviation history-air progress had eclipsed prediction.
  Once more, expert prognosticators had been wrong, the visionary dreamers
  right.
 And what was true here was true elsewhere.
  Nationwide, worldwide, the story was the same. Much was talked about
  aviation's growth, its needs, coming developments in the air which would
  provide the lowest cost transportation of people and goods in human
  history, the chance these gave the nations of the world to know each other
  better, in peace, and to trade more freely. Yet little on the ground-in
  relation to the problem's size-had been done.
  Well, one voice alone would not change everything, but each voice which
  spoke with knowledge and conviction was a help. It had come to Mel within
  the past few hours-he was not sure why or how-that he intended to continue
  speaking out the way he had tonight, the way he hadn't for so long.
  Tomorrow-or rather, later today-he would begin by summoning, for Monday
  morning, an emergency special meeting of the Board of Airport
  Commissioners. When the Board met, he would urge an immediate commitment to
  build a new runway paralleling three zero. ,
  The experience of tonight had strencqhened, as nothing else could, the
  arguments for increasing runway capacity which Mel had presented long ago.
  But this time, he determined, he would make a fight of it-with plain, blunt
  words, warning of catastrophe if public safety were given lip service only,
  while vital operational needs were iQnored or shelved. He would see to it
  that press and public opinion were marshaled on his sidethe kind of
  pressure which downtown politicians understood.
 After new runways, other projects, so far only talked
 Soo          AIRPORT

 about or hoped for, must be 'Pressed on; among thernan entirely new
 terminal and runway complex; more imaginative ground flow of people and
 freight; smaller, satellite fields for the vertical and short takeoff
 aircraft which were coming soon.
  Either Lincolh International was in the jet age, or it wasn't; if it was,
  it must keep pace far better than it had.
  It was not, Mel thought, as if airports were an indulgence or some civic
  luxury. Almost all were self-sustaining, generating wealth and high
  employment.
  Not all the battles for ground-air progress would be won; they never
  were. But some of them could be, and some of what was said and done
  here-because of Mel's stature in airport management--could spill over
  into national, even international, arenas.
  If it did, so much the better! The English poet John Donne, Mel
  remembered, had once written: No man is an island, entire of itself;
  every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. No airport was
  an island either; those which called themselves International should
  employ the kind of thinking to justify their name. Perhaps, working with
  others, Met could help to show them how.
  People who hadn't heard from Mel Bakersfeld for a while might quickly
  learn that he was still around.
  And intensive work, a resumption of more of his old industry-wide
  interests, might help with personal problems by keeping his mind
  occupied. Met hoped so, anyway. The thought was an abrupt reminder that
  sometime soon-perhaps tomorrow-he would have to call Cindy and arrange
  to move out his clothes and personal belongings. It would be an unhappy
  process which he hoped the girls, Roberta and Libby, would not be around
  to see. To begin with, Mel supposed, he would move into a hotel until he
  had time to arrange an apartment of his own.
  But more than ever be knew that Cindy's and his own decision for divorce
  bad been inevitable. Both of them had known it; tonight they merely
  resolved to remove a facade behind which nothing existed any more.
  Neither for themselves nor for the children could anything have been
  gained by more delay.
              AIRPORT          501

 It would still take time, though, to adjust.
  And Tanya? Mel was not sure what, if anything, was ahead for them
  together. He thought there might be a good deal, but the time for a
  commitment-if there was to be one-was not yet. He only knew that tonight,
  before this long and complex workday ended, he craved companionship,
  warmth, and tenderness; and, of all the friends he possessed, Tanya had
  those qualities in greatest measure.
  What else, between himself and Tanya, these might lead to would be known
  in time.
  Mel put his car in gear and swung it toward the perimeter road which
  would take him to the terminal. Runway three zero was on his right as he
  drove.
  Now that the runway was open, he saw, other aircraft were beginning to
  use it, arriving in a steady stream despite the lateness. A Convair 880
  of TWA swept by and landed. Behind it, half a mfle out, were the landing
  lights of another flight approaching. Behind the second, a third was
  turning in.
  The fact that Mel could see the third set of lights made him aware that
  the cloud base had lifted. He noticed suddenly that the snowfall had
  stopped; in a few places to the south, patches of sky were clearing. With
  relief, he realized the storm was moving on.
 

       ABOUT THE AUTHOR

 ARTHUR HAILEY was born in Luton, England, in 1920. He was a flight
 lieutenant in World War 11 and served in the Royal Air Force in the Middle
 and Far East.
  His two most recent books, Airport and Hotel, have been sensational
  bestsellers. His novels are published in all major languages. His plays
  have been performed throughout the world on television, and many of his
  stories have been made into successful motion pictures.
  Mr. Hailey lives in California with his wife and three children.
