THE EVENING NEWS 22

BY

ARTHUR HAILEY
 ALSO BY ARTHUR HAILEY

STRONG MEDICINE
OVERLOAD
THE MONEYCHANGERS
WHEELS
AIRPORT
HOTEL
IN HIGH PLACES
THE FINAL DIAGNOSIS
RUNWAY ZERO-EIGHT
(with John Castle)

         QUANTITY SALES
 Most Dell books are available at special quantity discounts when purchased
 in bulk by corporations, organizations, and special-interest groups. Custom
 imprinting or excerpting can also be done to fit special needs. For details
 write: Dell Publishing, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10103. Attn.: Special
 Sales Department.

        INDIVIDUAL SALES
 Are there any Dell books you want but cannot find in your local stores? If
 so, you can order them directly from us. You can get any Dell book in print.
 Simply include the book's title, author, and ISBN number if you have it,
 along with a check or money order (no cash can be accepted) for the full
 retail price plus $2-00 to cover shipping and handling. Mail to: Dell
 Readers Service, P.O. Box 5057, Des Plaines, IL 60017.
 ARTHUR HAILEY
        THE
 EVENING
 NEWS
 A Dell Book
Published by
Dell Publishing
a division of
Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, Inc.
666 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10103

The characters in this book are fictitious and any resemblance to actual
persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
Excerpt from "Dane-geld" copyright 1911 by Rudyard Kipling. From
Rudyard Kipling's Verse.- Definitive Edition. Reprinted by permission of
Doubleday, a division of Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, Inc.
"I'll Be Seeing You" copyright @ 1939 by Williamson Music Co.,
copyright renewed. Used by permission. All rights reserved.
"Seeing Nellie Home" copyright @ Music Sales Corporation. All Rights
Reserved. Used by permission.

        Copyright @) 1990 by Arthur Hailey

 All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted
 in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including
 photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval
 system, without the written permission of the Publisher, except where
 permitted by law.

   For information address: Doubleday, New York, New York.

The trademark Dell@ is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.

            ISBN: 0-440-20851-3

       Reprinted by arrangement with Doubleday

        Printed in the United States of America

         Printed simultaneously in Canada

               April 1991

         10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

               RAD
To Sheila and Diane
with special gratitude
and to
my many friends in the media
who trusted me
with off-the-record information.
                                     Author's Note: In Frederick Forsyth's novel The Day of the Jacka4 published
 1971, an assassin obtains a fraudulent British passport. In The Evening
 News, a terrorist obtains such a passport-in a differing way, the
 description the result of my own research.
  However, I acknowledge that in this matter, Mr. Forsyth's footprints were
  there first. -A.H.
        THE
 EVENING
 NEWS
PART
ONE
                                      At CBA Television News headquarters in New York, the initial report of a
 stricken Airbus A300, on fire and approaching Dallas-Fort Worth Airport,
 came only minutes before the network's first feed of the National Evening
 News.
  It was 6:21 P.m. eastern daylight time when CBA's bureau chief at Dallas
  told a producer on the New York Horseshoe through a speakerphone, "We're
  expecting a big aircraft crash at DFW any moment. There's been a midair
  collision-a small plane and an Airbus with a full passenger load. The small
  plane went down. The Airbus is on fire and trying to make it in. The police
  and ambulance radios are going wild."
  "Jesus!" another Horseshoe producer said. "What's our chance of getting
  pictures?"
  The Horseshoe, an outsize desk with seating for twelve people, was where
  the network's flagship news broadcast was planned and nurtured from early
  each weekday morning until the last second of air time every night. Over
  at rival CBS they called it the Fishbowl, at ABC the Rim, at NBC the Desk.
  But whichever name was used, the meaning was the same.
  Here, reputedly, were the network's best brains when it came to making
  judgments and decisions about news: executive producer, anchorman, senior
  producers, director, editors, writers, graphics chief and their ranking
  aides. There were also, like the instruments of an orchestra, a half-dozen
  computer terminals, wire news service printers, a phalanx of
  state-of-the-art telephones, and TV monitors on which could be called up
  in-
   6          ARTHUR HAILEY

 stantly anything from unedited tape, through a prepared news segment ready
 for broadcast, to competitors' transmissions.
  The Horseshoe was on the fourth floor of the CBA News Building, in a
  central open area with offices on one side-those of the National Evening
  News senior staff members who, at various times of day, would retreat from
  the often frenzied Horseshoe to their more private work quarters.
  Today, as on most days, presiding at the Horseshoe's head was Chuck Insen,
  executive producer. Lean and peppery, he was a veteran newsman with a print
  press background in his early years and, even now, a parochial preference
  for domestic news over international. At age fifty-two Insen was elderly by
  TV standards, though he showed no sign of diminished energy, even after
  four years in a job that often burned people out in two. Chuck Insen could
  be curt and often was; he never suffered fools or small talk. One reason:
  under the pressures of his job there wasn't time.
  At this moment-it was a Wednesday in mid-Septemberthe pressures were at
  maximum intensity. Through the eritire day, since early morning, the lineup
  of the National Evening News, the selection of subjects and their emphasis,
  had been reviewed, debated, amended and decided. Correspondents and
  producers around the world had contributed ideas, received instructions and
  responded. In the whole process the day's news had been whittled down to
  eight correspondent reports averaging a minute and a half to two minutes
  each, plus two voice-overs and four "tell stories." A voice-over was the
  anchorman speaking over pictures, a "tell story," the anchorman without
  pictures; for both the average was twenty seconds.
  Now, suddenly, because of the breaking story from Dallas and with less than
  eight minutes remaining before broadcast air time, it had become necessary
  to reshape the entire news lineup. Though no one knew how much more
  information would come in or whether pictures would be available, to in-
  clude the Dallas story at least one intended item had to be dropped, others
  shortened. Because of balance and timing the sequence of stories would be
  changed. The broadcast would
            The Evening News       7

 start while rearrangement was continuing. It often happened that way.
  "A fresh lineup, everybody." The crisp order came from Insen. "We'll go
  with Dallas at the top. Crawf will do a tell story. Do we have wire copy
  yet?"
  "AP just in. I have it." The answer was from Crawford Sloane, the
  anchorman. He was reading an Associated Press bulletin printout handed
  to him moments earlier.
  Sloane, whose familiar craggy features, gray-flecked hair, jutting jaw
  and authoritative yet reassuring manner were watched by some seventeen
  million people almost every weeknight, was at the Horseshoe in his usual
  privileged seat on the executive producer's right. Crawf Sloane, too, was
  a news veteran and had climbed the promotion ladder steadily, especially
  after exposure as a CBA correspondent in Vietnam. Now, after a stint of
  reporting from the White House followed by three years in the nightly
  anchor slot, he was a national institution, one of the media elite.
  In a few minutes Sloane would leave for the broadcast studio. Meanwhile,
  for his tell story he would draw on what had already come from Dallas
  over the speakerphone, plus some additional facts in the AP report. He
  would compose the story himself. Not every anchor wrote his own material
  but Sloane, when possible, liked to write most of what he spoke. But
  hehad to do it fast.
  Insen's raised voice could be heard again. The executive producer,
  consulting the original broadcast lineup, told one of his three senior
  producers, "Kill Saudi Arabia. Take fifteen seconds out of Nicaragua .
  . ."
  Mentally, Sloane winced on hearing the decision to remove the Saudi
  story. It was important news and a well-crafted two and a half minutes
  by CBA's Middle East correspondent about the Saudis' future marketing
  plans for oil. But by tomorrow the story would be dead because they knew
  that other networks had it and would go with it tonight.
  Sloane didn't question the decision to put the Dallas story first, but
  his own choice for a deletion would have been a Capitol Hill piece about
  a U.S. senator's malfeasance. The legislator
 8          ARTHUR HAILEY

 had quietly slipped eight million dollars into a gargantuan appropriations
 bill, the money to oblige a campaign contributor and personal friend. Only
 through a reporter's diligent scrutiny had the matter come to light.
  While more colorful, the Washington item was less important, a corrupt
  member of Congress being nothing out of the ordinary. But the decision, the
  anchorman thought sourly, was typical of Chuck Insen: once more an item of
  foreign news, whose emphasis Sloane favored, had gone into the discard.
  The relationship between the two--executive producer and anchorman-had
  never been good, and had worsened recently because of disagreements of that
  kind. Increasingly, it seemed, their basic ideas were growing further
  apart, not only about the kind of news that should have priority each
  evening, but also how it should be dealt with. Sloane, for example, favored
  indepth treatment of a few major subjects, while Insen wanted as much of
  that day's news as could be crammed in, even if-as he was apt to express
  it-"we deal with some of the news in shorthand."
  In other circumstances Sloane would have argued against dropping the Saudi
  piece, perhaps with positive effect because the anchorman was also
  executive editor and entitled to some input--except right now there wasn't
  time.
  Hurriedly, Sloane braced his heels against the floor, maneuvering his
  swivel chair backward and sideways with practiced skill so that he
  confronted a computer keyboard. Concentrating, mentally shutting out the
  commotion around him, he tapped out what would be the opening sentences of
  tonight's broadcast.

   From Dallas-Fort Worth, this wordjust in on what may be a tragedy in
   the making. We know that minutes ago there was a midair collision
   between two passenger planes, one a heavily loaded Airbus of Muskegon
   Airlines. It happened over the town of Gainesville, Texas, north of
   Dallas, and Associated Press reports the other plane--a small one, it's
   believed-went down. There is no word at this moment on itsfate or of
   casualties on the ground The Airbus is still
            The Evening News       9

 in the air, but on fire as its pilots attempt to reach DallasFort Worth
 Airport for a landing. On the ground, fire fighters and ambulance crews
 are standing by . . .

  While his fingers raced across the keyboard, Sloane reflected in a corner
  of his mind that few, if any, viewers would switch off until tonight's
  news was concluded. He added a sentence to the tell story about staying
  tuned for further developments, then hit a key for printout. Over at
  Teleprompter they would get a printout too, so that by the time he
  reached the broadcast studio, one floor below, it would be ready for him
  to read from the prompter screen.
  As Sloane, a sheaf of papers in hand, quickly headed for the stairs to
  the third floor, Insen was demanding of a senior producer, "Dammit, what
  about pictures from DFW?"
  "Chuck, it doesn't look good." The producer, a phone cradled in his
  shoulder, was talking to the national editor in the main newsroom. "The
  burning airplane is getting near the airport but our camera crew is
  twenty miles away. They won't make it in time."
  Insen swore in frustration. "Shit!"

  If medals were awarded for dangerous service in the field of television,
  Ernie LaSalle, the national editor, would have had a chestful. Although
  only twenty-nine, he had served with distinction and frequent peril as
  a CBA field producer in Lebanon, Iran, Angola, the Falklands, Nicaragua
  and other messy places while ugly situations were erupting. Though the
  same kind of situations were still happening, nowadays LaSalle viewed the
  domestic American scene, which could be equally messy at times, from a
  comfortable upholstered chair in a glass-paneled office overlooking the
  main newsroom.
  LaSalle was compact and small-boned, energetic, neatly bearded and
  carefully dressed-a yuppie type, some said. As national editor his
  responsibilities were large and he was one of two senior functionaries
  in the newsroom. The other was the foreign editor. Both had newsroom
  desks which they occupied when any particular story became hot and either
  was closely
 10         ARTHUR HAILEY

 involved. The Dallas-Fort Worth Airport story was hot--ergo, LaSalle had
 rushed to his newsroom desk.
  The newsroom was one floor below the Horseshoe. So was the news broadcast
  studio, which used the bustling newsroom as its visual backdrop. A control
  room, where a director put the technical components of each broadcast
  together, was in the News Building basement.
  It was now seven minutes since the Dallas bureau chief had first reported
  the wounded Airbus approaching DFW. LaSalle slammed down one phone and
  picked up another, at the same time reading a computer screen alongside him
  on which a new AP report had just appeared. He was continuing to do every-
  thing he could to ensure coverage of the story, at the same time keeping
  the Horseshoe advised of developments.
  It was LaSalle who reported the dispiriting news about CBA's nearest camera
  crew-though now rushing toward DFW and ignoring speed limits en route,
  still twenty miles from the scene of action. The reason was that it had
  been a busy day at the Dallas bureau, with all camera crews, field
  producers and correspondents out on assignment, and by sheer bad luck all
  of the assignments were a long way from the airport.
  Of course, there would be some pictures forthcoming shortly, but they would
  be after the fact and not of the critical Airbus landing, which was certain
  to be spectacular and perhaps disastrous. It was also unlikely that
  pictures of any kind would be available for the first feed of the National
  Evening News, which went via satellite to most of the eastern seaboard and
  parts of the Midwest.
  The only consolation was that the Dallas bureau chief had learned that no
  other network or local station had a camera crew at the airport either,
  though like CBA's others were on the way.
  From his newsroom desk Ernie LaSalle, still busy with telephones, could see
  the usual prebroadcast action in the brightly lit news studio as Crawford
  Sloane came in. Television viewers watching Sloane during a broadcast had
  the illusion that the anchorman was in, and part of, the newsroom. But in
  fact there
            The Evening News      11

 was thick soundproof glass between the two so that no newsroom noises
 intruded, except when deliberately faded in as an audio effect.
  The time was 6:28 P.m., two minutes before first-feed air.

  As Sloane slipped into the anchor desk chair, his back to the newsroom and
  facing the center camera of three, a makeup girl moved in. Ten minutes
  earlier Sloane had had makeup applied in a small private room adjoining his
  office, but since then he had been sweating. Now the girl mopped his
  forehead, dabbed on powder, ran a comb through his hair and applied a touch
  of hair spray.
  With a hint of impatience Sloane murmured, "Thanks, Nina," then glanced
  over his papers, checking that the opening words of his tell story on top
  corresponded with those displayed in large letters on the Teleprompter in
  front of him, from which he would read while appearing to look directly at
  viewers. The papers which news readers were often seen to shuffle were a
  precaution, for use only if the Teleprompter failed.
  The studio stage manager called out loudly, "One minute!"

  In the newsroom, Ernie LaSalle suddenly sat up straight, attentive,
  startled.
  About a minute earlier, the Dallas bureau chief had excused himself from
  the line on which he had been talking with LaSalle to take another phone
  call, Waiting, LaSalle could hear the bureau chief's voice but not what was
  being said. Now the bureau man returned and what he reported caused the
  national editor to smile broadly.
  LaSalle picked up a red reporting telephone on his desk which connected
  him, through amplified speakers, to every section of the news operation.
  "National desk. LaSalle. Good news. We now have immediate coverage at DFW
  airport. In the terminal building, waiting for flight connections, are
  Partridge, Abrams, Van Canh. Abrams just reported to Dallas bureau-they are
  onto the story and running. More: A mobile satellite van has abandoned
  an-
   12         ARTHUR HAILEY

 other assignment and is en route to DFW, expected soonest. Satellite feed
 time, Dallas to New York, is booked. We expect pictures in time for
 inclusion in the first-feed news."
  Though he tried to sound laconic, LaSalle found it hard to keep the
  satisfaction from his voice. As if in response, a muffled cheer drifted
  down the open stairway from the Horseshoe above. Crawford Sloane, in the
  studio, also swung around and gave LaSalle a cheerful thumbs up.
  An aide put a paper in front of the national editor who glanced at it, then
  continued on the speakerphone, "Also from Abrams, this report: On board
  Airbus in distress are 286passengers, eleven crew. Second plane in
  collision, a private Piper Cheyenne, crashed in Gainesville, no survivors.
  There are other casualties on ground, no details, numbers or seriousness.
  Airbus has one engine ripped off, is attempting landing on remaining en-
  gine. Air Traffic Control reportsfire isfrom the location of missing
  engine. Report ends."
  LaSalle thought: Everything that had come from Dallas in the past few
  minutes was totally professional. But then, it was not surprising because
  the team of Abrams, Partridge and Van Canh was one of the crack
  combinations of CBA News. Rita Abrams, once a correspondent and now a
  senior field producer, was noted for her quick assessment of situations and
  a resourcefulness in getting stories back, even under difficult conditions.
  Harry Partridge was one of the. best correspondents in the business. He
  normally specialized in war stories and, like Crawford Sloane, had reported
  from Vietnam, but could be relied on to do an exceptional job in any
  situation. And cameraman Minh Van Canh, once a Vietnamese and now an
  American citizen, was noted for his fine pictures sometimes shot in dan-
  gerous situations with disregard for his own safety. The fact that the
  three of them were onto the Dallas story guaranteed that it would be well
  handled.
  By now it was a minute past the half hour and the first-feed National
  Evening News had begun. Reaching for a control beside his desk, LaSalle
  turned up the audio of an overhead monitor and heard Crawford Sloane doing
  the top-of-the-news tell story about DFW. On camera, a hand-it was a
  writer's-
              The Evening News      13

 slipped a paper in front of him. Clearly it contained the additional report
 LaSalle had just dictated and, glancing down and ad-libbing, Sloane
 incorporated it into his prepared text. It was the kind of thing the
 anchorman did superbly.

  Upstairs at the Horseshoe since LaSalle's announcement, the mood had
  changed. Now, though pressure and urgency remained, there was cheerful
  optimism with the knowledge that the Dallas situation was well in hand and
  pictures and a fuller report would be forthcoming. Cfiuck Insen and others
  were huddled, watching monitors, arguing, making decisions, squeezing out
  seconds, doing still more cutting and rearranging to leave the needed
  space. It looked as if the report about the corrupt senator would fall by
  the way after all. There was a sense of everyone doing what they did
  best-coping in a timeconfined, exigency situation.
  Swift exchanges, jargon-loaded, flowed back and forth.
  "This piece is picture-poor."
  "Make that copy shorter, pithy."
  "Tape room: We're killing '16: Corruption.' But it may come back in if we
  don't get Dallas."
  "The last fifteen seconds of that piece is deadly. We'll be telling people
  what they already know."
  "The old lady in Omaha doesn't know."
  "Then she never will. Drop it."
  "First segment just finished. Have gone to commercial. We're forty seconds
  heavy."
  "What did the competition have from Dallas?"
  "A tell story, same as us."
  "I need a bumper and cutline fast for 'Drug Bust.'
  "Take out that sequence. It does nothing."
  "What we're trying to do here is put twelve pounds of shit into a ten-pound
  bag."

  An observer unfamiliar with the scene might wonder: Are these people human?
  Don't they care? Have they no emotion, no feelings of involvement, not an
  ounce ofgrief? Have any of them spared a thoughtfor the nearly three
  hundred terrified souls on
 14         ARTHUR HAILEY

 that airplane approaching DFW who may shortly die? Isn't there anyone here
 to whom that matters?
  And someone knowledgeable about news would answer: Yes, there are people
  here to whom it matters, and they will care, maybe right after the
  broadcast. Or, when some have reached home, the horror of it all will
  touch them, and depending on how it all turns out, afew may weep. At this
  moment, though, no one has the time. These are news people. Their job is
  to record the passing parade, the bad with the good, and to do it
  swiftly, efficiently, plainly so that-in a news phrase from an older
  time"he who runs may read. "
  Therefore at 6:40 P.m., ten minutes into the National Evening News half
  hour, the key remaining question for those around the Horseshoe and
  others in the newsroom, studio and control room was: Will there or won't
  there be a story soon, with pictures, from DFW?

 For the group of five journalists at Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, the
 sequence of events had begun a couple of hours earlier and reached a high
 point at about 5:10 P.m., central daylight time.
  The five were Harry Partridge, Rita Abrams, Minh Van Canh, Ken O'Hara,
  the CBA crew's sound man, and Graham Broderick, a foreign correspondent
  for the New York Times. That same morning, in predawn darkness, they had
  left El Salvador and flown to Mexico City, then, after delay and a flight
  change, traveled onward to DFW. Now they were awaiting other flight
  connections, some to differing destinations.
  All were weary, not just from today's long journey, but from two months
  or more of rough and dangerous living while reporting on several nasty
  wars in unpleasant parts of Latin America.
  While waiting for their flights, they were in a bar in Termi-            The Evening News      15

 nal 2E, one of twenty-four busy bars in the airport. The bar's d6cor was
 mod-utilitarian. Surrounded by an imitation garden wall containing plants,
 it sported hanging fabric panels overhead in pale blue plaid, lit by
 concealed pink lighting. The Timesman said it reminded him of a whorehouse
 he had once been in in Mandalay.
  From their table near a window they could see the aircraft ramp and Gate
  20. It was from that gate Harry Partridge had expected to leave, a few
  minutes from now, on an American Airlines flight to Toronto. But this
  evening the flight was late and an hour's delay had just been announced.
  Partridge, a tall and lanky figure, had an untidy shock of fair hair that
  had always made him look boyish and still did, despite his forty-odd years
  and the fact that the hair was graying. At this moment he was relaxed and
  not much caring about flight delays or anything else. He had ahead of him
  three weeks of R&R, and rest and relaxation were what he sorely needed.
  Rita Abrams' connecting flight would be to MinneapolisSt. Paul, from where
  she was headed for a holiday on a friend's farm in Minnesota. She also had
  a weekend rendezvous planned there with a married senior CBA official, a
  piece of information she was keeping to herself. Minh Van Canh and Ken
  O'Hara were going home to New York. So was Graham Broderick.
  The trio of Partridge, Rita and Minh was a frequent working combination.
  On their most recent trip, O'Hara had been with them, as sound recordist,
  for the first time. He was young, pale, pencil-thin, and spent most of his
  spare time absorbed in electronics magazines; be had one open now.
  Broderick was the odd man out, though he and the TV-ers often covered the
  same assignments and mostly were on good terms. At this moment, however,
  the Timesman-rotund, dignified and slightly pompous-was being antagonistic.
  Three of the group had had a little too much to drink. The exceptions were
  Van Canh, who drank only club soda, and the sound man, who had nursed a
  beer for a long time and declined more.
  "Listen, you affluent son of a bitch," Broderick said to Par- 16         ARTHUR HAILEY

 tridge, who had pulled a billfold from his pocket, "I said I'd pay for this
 round, and so I will." He put two bills, a twenty and a five, on a waiter's
 tray on which three double scotches and a club soda had been delivered.
 "Just because you pull down twice as much as I do for half the work is no
 reason to hand the print press charity."
  "Oh, for chrissakes!" Rita said. "Brod, why don't you throw away that old
  cracked record."
  Rita had spoken loudly, as she sometimes did. Two uniformed officers from
  the airport's Department of Public Safety force, which policed DFW, had
  been walking through the bar; they turned their heads curiously. Observing
  them, Rita smiled and waved a hand. The officers' eyes took in the group
  and, around them, the assortment of cameras and equipment on which the CBA
  logo was prominent. Both DPS men returned the smile and moved on.
  Harry Partridge, who had been watching, thought: Rita was showing her age
  today. Even though she exuded a strong sexuality which had drawn many men
  to her, there were telltale lines on her face; also, the toughness which
  made her as demanding of herself as of those she worked with came through
  in imperious little mannerisms, not always attractively. There was recent
  reason, of course-the strain and heavy work load which she, Harry and the
  other two had shared through the past two months.
  Rita was forty-three, and six years ago was still appearing on camera as
  a news correspondent, though far less often than when she was younger and
  more glamorous. Everyone knew it was a rotten, unfair system that allowed
  men to continue as correspondents, to keep on facing the camera even when
  their faces revealed them to be growing older, whereas women couldn't and
  were shunted aside like discarded concubines. A few women had tried to
  fight and beat the system-Christine Craft, a reporter and anchor-woman,
  pursued the issue through the courts, but had not succeeded.
  But Rita, instead of starting a fight she knew she wouldn't win, had
  switched to producing and, behind the camera instead of in front of it, had
  been triumphantly successful. Along the
            The Evening News      17

 way she had badgered senior producers into giving her some of the tough
 foreign assignments which almost always went to men. For a while her male
 bosses had resisted, then they had given in, and soon Rita was sent
 automatically-along with Harry-to where the fighting was fiercest and the
 living hardest.
  Broderick, who had been pondering Rita's last remark, now said, "It isn't
  as if your glamour gang is doing anything important. Every night that
  tiny news hole has only tooth pickings of all that's happened in the
  world. How long is it-nineteen minutes?"
  "If you're shooting at us sitting ducks," Partridge said amiably, "at
  least the print press should get its facts straight. It's twenty-one and
  a half."
  "Leaving seven minutes for commercials," Rita added, "which, among other
  things, pay Harry's excessive salary which turns you green with
  jealousy."
  Rita, with her usual bluntness, was on the nose about jealousy, Partridge
  thought. With print press people, the difference between their own and
  TV news pay was always a sore point. In contrast with Partridge's
  earnings, which were $250,000 a year, Broderick, a first-class, highly
  competent reporter, probably got $85,000.
  As if his train of thought had not been interrupted, the Timesman
  continued, "What your entire network news department produces in a day
  would only fill half of one of our paper's pages."
  "A dumb comparison," Rita shot back, "because everyone knows a picture
  is worth a thousand words. We have hundreds of pictures and we take
  people to where the news is so they can see it for themselves. No
  newspaper in history ever did that."
  Broderick, holding in one hand the fresh double scotch he had been
  sipping, waved the other hand dismissingly. "'S not relevant." The last
  word gave him trouble; he pronounced it "revelant."
  It was Minh Van Canh, not usually a great talker, who asked, "Why not?"
  "Because you people are dodos. TV network news is dying.
 18         ARTHUR HAILEY

 All you ever were was a headline service and now the local stations are
 taking over even that, using technology to bring in outside news themselves,
 picking off pieces of you like vultures at a carcass."
  "Well," Partridge said, still agreeably relaxed, "there are some who've
  been saying that for years. But look at us. We're still around, and still
  strong, because people watch network news for quality."
  "You're goddamn right," Rita said. "And something else you have wrong,
  Brod, is the notion that local TV news is getting better. It isn't. It's
  getting worse. Some of the people who left networks with high hopes to work
  in local news have gone back to the networks in disgust."
  Broderick asked, "Why so?"
  "Because local station managements see news as hype, promotion, massive
  revenue. They use that new technology you talk about to pander to the
  lowest viewer tastes. And when they send someone from their news department
  on a big outside story, it's usually a kid, out of his depth, who can't
  compete with a network reporter's know-how and backup."
  Harry Partridge yawned. The thing about this conversation, he realized, was
  that it was a retread, a game that filled vacant time but required no
  intellectual effort, and they had indulged in the game many times before.
  Then he became aware of some activity nearby.
  The two DPS officers were still in the bar through which they had moved
  casually, but had suddenly become attentive and were listening to their
  walkie-talkies. An announcement was being transmitted. Partridge caught the
  words, ". . . condition Alert Two . . . midair collision . . . approaching
  runway one-seven left . . . all DPS personnel report
 Abruptly, hurrying, the officers left the bar.
  The others in the group had heard too. "Hey!" Minh Van Canh said. "Maybe
  . . ."
  Rita jumped up. "I'll find out what's happening." She left the bar
  hurriedly.
  Van Canh and O'Hara began to gather together their cam-            The Evening News      19

 era and sound ' gear. Partridge and Broderick did the same with their
 belongings.
  One of the DPS officers was still in sight. Rita caught up with him near
  an American Airlines check-in counter, noting that he was youthfully
  handsome with the physique of a football player.
  "I'm from CBA News." She showed her network press card.
  His eyes were frankly appraising. "Yes, I know."
  In other circumstances, she thought briefly, she might have introduced him
  to the pleasures of an older woman. Unfortunately there wasn't time. She
  asked, "What's going on?"
  The officer hesitated. "You're supposed to call the Public Information
  Office-"
  Rita said impatiently, "I'll do that later. It's urgent, isn't it? So tell
  me."
  "Muskegon Airlines is in trouble. One of their Airbuses had a midair. It's
  coming in on fire. We're on Alert Two, which means all the emergency stuff
  is rolling, heading for runway one-seven left." His voice was serious.
  "Looks pretty bad."
  "I want my camera crew out there. Now and fast. Which way do we go?"
  The DPS man shook his head. "If you try it unescorted, you won't get beyond
  the ramp. You'll be arrested."
  Rita remembered something she had once been told, that DFW airport prided
  itself on cooperating with the press. She pointed to the officer's
  walkie-talkie. "Can you call Public Information on that?"
  "I could."
  "Do it. Please!"
  Her persuasion worked. The officer called and was answered. Taking Rita's
  press card, he read from it, explaining her request.
  A reply came back. "Tell them they must first come to public safety station
  number one to sign in and get media badges."
  Rita groaned. She gestured to the walkie-talkie. "Let me speak. "
 20         ARTHUR HAILEY

  The DPS officer pressed a transmit button. He held the radio out.
  She spoke urgently into the built-in mike: "There isn't time; you must
  know that. We're network. We have every kind of credential. We'll do any
  paperwork you want afterward. But please, please, get us to the scene
  now."
  "Stand by." A pause, then a new voice with crisp authority. "Okay, get
  to gate nineteen fast. Ask someone there to direct you to the ramp. Look
  for a station wagon with flashing lights. I'm on my way to you."
  Rita squeezed the officer's arm. "Thanks, pal!"
  Then she was hurrying back toward Partridge and the others who were
  leaving the bar. Broderick was last. As he left, the New York Times man
  cast a regretful glance back at the unconsumed drinks for which he had
  paid.
  Briskly, Rita related what she had learned, telling Partridge, Minh and
  O'Hara, "This can be big. Go out on the airfield. Don't waste time. I'll
  do some phoning, then come to find you." She glanced at her watch: 5:20
  P.m., 6:20 in New York. "If we're fast we can make the first feed." But
  privately she doubted it.
  Partridge nodded, accepting Rita's orders. At any time, the relationship
  between a correspondent and producer was an imprecise one. Officially,
  a field producer such as Rita Abrams was in charge of an entire crew,
  including the correspondent, and if anything went wrong on an assignment
  the producer got the blame. If things went right, of course, the
  correspondent whose face and name were featured received the praise, even
  though the producer undoubtedly helped shape the story and contributed
  to the script.
  However, in the case of a "Big Foot" senior correspondent like Harry
  Partridge, the official pecking order sometimes got turned around, with
  the correspondent taking charge and a producer being overawed and
  sometimes overruled, But when Partridge and Rita worked together, neither
  gave a damn about status. They simply wanted to send back the best
  reports that the two of them, in harness, could produce.
  While Rita hurried to a pay phone, Partridge, Minh and
            The Evening News      21

 O'Hara moved quickly toward gate 19, looking for an exit to the air
 traffic ramp below. Graham Broderick, quickly sobered by what was
 happening, was close behind.
  Near the gate was a doorway marked:

RAMP-RESTRICTED AREA
EMERGENCY EXIT ONLY
ALARM WILL SOUND

  No official person was in sight and without hesitation Partridge pushed
  his way through, the others following. As they clattered down a metal
  stairway, a loud alarm bell sounded behind them. They ignored it and
  emerged onto the ramp.
  It was a busy time of day and the ramp was crowded with aircraft and
  airline vehicles. Suddenly a station wagon appeared, traveling fast, with
  roof lights flashing. Its tires screeched as it halted at gate 19.
  Minh, who was nearest, opened a door and jumped inside. The others piled
  in after him. The driver, a slim young black man in a brown business
  suit, pulled away, driving as swiftly as he had come. Without looking
  back he said, "Hiya, guys! I'm Vemon-Public Info."
  Partridge introduced himself and the others.
  Reaching down to the seat beside him, Vernon came up with three green
  media badges. He passed them back. "These are temp; better clip them on.
  I already broke some rules, but like your girlfriend said, we ain't
  burdened with time."
  They had left the ramp area, crossed two taxiways and were traveling east
  on a parallel access road. Two runways were ahead and to the right.
  Alongside the farther runway, emergency vehicles were assembling.

  Rita Abrams, in the terminal, was talking on a pay phone with CRA's
  Dallas bureau. The bureau chief, she had discovered, already knew of the
  airport emergency and had been trying to get a local CBA crew to the
  scene. He learned with delight of the presence of Rita and the others.
 22         ARTHUR BAILEY

  She told him to advise New York, then asked, "What's our satellite feed
  situation?"
  "Good. There's a mobile satellite van on the way from Arlington."
  Arlington, she learned, was only thirteen miles away. The van, which
  belonged to a CBA affiliate station, KDLS-TV, had been setting up for a
  sports broadcast from Arlington Stadium, but now that story had been
  abandoned and the van dispatched to DFW. The driver and technician would
  be advised by cellular phone to cooperate with Rita, Partridge and the
  others.
  The news excited and elated her. There was, she realized, now a good
  possibility of getting a story and pictures to New York in time for the
  first-feed National Evening News.

  The station wagon carrying the CBA trio and the Timesman was nearing runway
  17L-the figures denoted a magnetic heading of 170 degrees, almost due
  south; the L showed it to be the left runway of two that were parallel. As
  at all airports, the designation was in large white characters on the
  runway surface.
  Still driving fast, Vernon explained, "A pilot in distress gets to choose
  the runway he wants. Here it's usually one-seven left. That baby is two
  hundred feet wide and closest to emergency help."
  The station wagon halted on a taxiway that intersected 17L and from where
  the incoming aircraft's approach and landing would be seen.
  "This will be the on-site command post," Vernon said.
  Emergency vehicles were still arriving, some converging around them. From
  the airport's fire-fighting force were seven yellow trucks-four mammoth
  Oshkosh M 15 foam vehicles, an aerial ladder truck and two smaller Rapid
  Intervention Vehicles. The foam trucks, riding on giant tires nearly six
  feet high, with two engines, front and rear, and high-pressure projection
  nozzles, were like self-contained fire stations. The RIV's, fast and
  maneuverable, were designed to go in close and quickly to a burning
  aircraft.
  A half-dozen blue-and-white police cruisers disgorged of-            The Evening News      23

 ficers who opened the cars' trunks, pulled out silver fire suits and
 climbed into them. Airport police were cross-trained in fire fighting,
 Vernon explained. On the station wagon's DPS radio a stream of orders
 could be heard.
  The fire trucks, supervised by a lieutenant in a yellow sedan, were
  taking positions on ramps at intervals down the runway's length.
  Ambulances summoned from nearby communities were streaming into the
  airport and assembling nearby, but clear of the runway area.
  Partridge had been the first to jump from the station wagon and, standing
  beside it, was scribbling notes. Broderick, less hurriedly, was doing the
  same. Minh Van Canh had clambered to the station wagon's roof and now,
  standing, his camera ready, was scanning the sky to the north. Behind him
  was Ken O'Hara, trailing wires and a sound recorder.
  Almost at once the stricken inbound flight was visible, about five miles
  out, with heavy black smoke behind it. Minh raised his camera, holding
  it steady, one eye tight against the viewfinder.
  He was a sturdy, stocky figure, not much more than five feet tall, but
  with broad shoulders and long, muscular arms. His squarish dark face,
  pockmarked from a childhood bout with smallpox, held wide brown eyes
  which looked out impassively, unrevealing of what thoughts might lie
  behind them. Those who were close to Minh said it took a long time to get
  to know him.
  About some things, though, there was consensus-namely, that Minh was
  industrious, reliable, honest, and one of the best TV cameramen in the
  business. His pictures were more than good; they were invariably
  attention-getting and oftentimes artistic. He had worked for CBA first
  in Vietnam, as a local recruit who learned his trade from an American
  cameraman for whom Minh carried equipment amid the jungle fighting. When
  his mentor was killed after stepping on a land mine, Minh, unaided,
  carried his body back for burial, then returned with the camera into the
  jungle where he continued filming. No one at CBA could ever remember
  hiring him. His employment simply became a fait accompli.
 24         ARTHUR HAILEY

  In 1975, with the fall of Saigon imminent, Minh, his wife and two children
  were among the all-too-few lucky ones airlifted from the U.S. Embassy
  courtyard by CH-53 military helicopter to the safety of the American
  Seventh Fleet at sea. Even then Minh filmed it all, and much of his footage
  was used on the National Evening News.
  Now he was filming another aerial story, different but dramatic, whose
  ending had yet to be determined.
  In the viewfinder the shape of the approaching Airbus was becoming clearer.
  Also clearer was a halo of bright flame on the right side with smoke
  continuing to stream behind. It was possible to see the fire coming from
  where an engine had been, and where now only a part of the engine pylon
  remained. To Minh and others watching, it seemed amazing that the entire
  airplane had not yet been engulfed.
  Inside the station wagon, Vernon had switched on an aviation band radio.
  Air Traffic Control could be heard speaking with the Airbus pilots. The
  calm voice of a controller, monitoring their approach by radar, cautioned,
  "You are slightly below glide path . . . drifting left of center line . .
  . Now on glide path, on center line . . ."
  But the Airbus pilots were clearly having trouble holding altitude and an
  even course. The plane seemed to be crabbing in, the damaged right wing
  lower than the left. At moments the plane's nose veered away; then, as if
  from urgent efforts in the cockpit, swung back toward the runway. There was
  an uneven up-and-down movement as at one moment too much height was lost,
  at the next retrieved, but barely. Those on the ground were asking
  themselves the tense, unspoken question: Having come this far, would the
  Airbus make it all the way in? The answer seemed in doubt.
  On the radio, the voice of one of the pilots could be heard. "Tower, we
  have landing-gear problems . . . hydraulic failure." A pause. "We are
  trying the gear down 'free fall'
 now. "
  A fire captain, also listening, had stopped beside them. Partridge asked
  him, "What does that mean?"
  "On big passenger planes there's an emergency system to
            The Evening News      25

 get the landing wheels down if hydraulic power is out. The pilots release
 all hydraulic power so the gear, which is heavy, should fall under its own
 weight, then lock. But once it's down they can't get it up again, even if
 they want to."
  As the fireman spoke, the Airbus landing gear could be seen slowly coming
  down.
  Moments later, once more the calm voice of an air traffic controller:
  "Muskegon, we see your gear down. Be advised that flames are close to the
  right front gear."
  It was obvious that if the right front tires were consumed by fire, as
  seemed probable, that side of the landing gear might collapse on impact,
  skewing the airplane to the right at high speed.
  Minh, fondling a zoom lens, had his camera running. He too could see the
  flames which had now reached the tires. The Airbus was floating over the
  airport boundary . . . Then it was closer in, barely a quarter mile from
  the runway . . . It was going to make it to the ground, but the fire was
  greater, more intense, clearly being fed by fuel, and two of the four
  right-side tires were burning, the rubber melting . . . There was a flash
  as one of the tires exploded.
  Now the burning Airbus was over the runway, its landing speed 150 mph.
  As the aircraft passed the waiting emergency vehicles, one by one they
  swung onto the runway, following at top speed, tires screaming. Two
  yellow foam trucks were the first to move, the other fire trucks close
  behind.
  On the runway, as the airplane's landing gear made contact with the
  ground, another right-side tire exploded, then another. Suddenly all
  right tires disintegrated . . . the wheels were down to their rims.
  Simultaneously there was a banshee screech of metal, a shower of sparks,
  and a cloud of dust and cement fragments rose into the air . . . Somehow,
  miraculously, the pilots managed to hold the Airbus on the runway . . .
  It seemed to continue a long way and for a long time . . . At last it
  stopped. As it did, the fire flared up.
  Still moving fast, the fire trucks closed in, within seconds pumping
  foam. Gigantic whorls of it piled up with incredible speed, like a
  mountain of shave cream.
 26         ARTHUR HAILEY

  On the airplane, several passenger doors were opening, escape slides
  tumbling out. The forward door was open on the right side, but on that
  side fire was blocking the mid-fuselage exits. On the left side, away
  from the fire, another forward door and a mid-fuselage door were open.
  Some passengers were already coming down the slides.
  But at the rear, where there were two escape doors on each side, none had
  so far opened.
  Through the three open doors, smoke from inside the airplane was pouring
  out. Some passengers were already on the ground. The latest ones emerged
  coughing, many vomiting, all gasping for fresh air.
  By now the exterior fire was dying down under a mass of foam on one side
  of the airplane.
  Firemen from the RIV's, wearing silver protective clothing and breathing
  apparatus, had swiftly moved in and rigged ladders to the unopened rear
  doors. As the doors were opened manually from outside, more smoke poured
  out. The firemen hurried inside, intent on extinguishing any interior
  fire. Other firemen, entering the wrecked Airbus through the forward
  doors, helped passengers to leave, some of them dazed and weak.
  Noticeably, the outward flow of passengers slowed. Harry Partridge made
  a quick estimate that nearly two hundred people had emerged from the
  plane's interior, though from the information he had gathered he knew
  that 297, including crew, were reportedly aboard. Firemen began to carry
  some who appeared badly burned-among them two women flight attendants.
  Smoke was still drifting from inside, though less of it than earlier.
  Minh Van Canh continued to videotape the action around him, thinking only
  professionally, excluding other thoughts, though aware that he was the
  only cameraman on the scene and in his camera he had something special
  and unique. Probably not since the Hindenburg airship disaster had a
  major air crash been recorded visually in such detail, while it happened.
  Ambulances had been summoned to the on-site command post. A dozen were
  already there, with more arriving. Para-
              The Evening News      27

 medics worked on the injured, loading them onto numbered backboards.
 Within minutes the crash victims would be on their way to area hospitals
 alerted to receive them. With the arrival of a helicopter bringing doctors
 and nurses, the command post near the Airbus was becoming an improvised
 field hospital with a functioning triage system.
  The speed with which everything was happening spoke well, Partridge
  thought, of the airport's emergency planning. He overheard the fire
  captain report that a hundred and ninety passengers, more or less, were
  out of the Airbus and alive. At the same time that left nearly a hundred
  unaccounted for.
  A fireman, pulling off his respirator to wipe the sweat from his face,
  was heard to say, "Oh Christ! The back seats are chock full of dead. It
  must have been where the smoke was thickest." It also explained why the
  four rear escape doors had not been opened from inside.
  As always with an aircraft accident, the dead would be left where they
  were until a National Transportation Safety Board field officer,
  reportedly on the way, gave authority to move them after approving
  identification procedures.
  The flight-deck crew emerged from the Airbus, pointedly declining help.
  The captain, a grizzled four-striper, looking around him at the injured
  and already knowing of the many dead, was openly crying. Guessing that
  despite the casualties the pilots would be acclaimed for bringing the
  airplane in, Minh held the captain's grief-stricken face in closeup. It
  proved to be Minh's final shot as a voice called, "Harry! Minh! Ken! Stop
  now. Hurry! Bring what you've got and come with me. We're feeding to New
  York by satellite."
  The voice belonged to Rita Abrams, who had arrived on a Public
  Information shuttle bus. Some distance away, the promised mobile
  satellite van could be seen. The van's satellite dish, which folded like
  a fan for travel, was being opened and aimed skyward.
  Accepting the order, Minh lowered his camera. Two other TV crews had
  arrived on the same shuttle bus as Rita--one from KDLS, the CBA
  affiliate-along with print press reporters and photographers. They and
  others, Minh knew, would
 28         ARTHUR RAILEY

 carry the story on. But only Minh had the real thing, the crash exclusive
 pictures, and he knew with inward pride that today and in days to come, his
 pictures would be seen around the world and would remain a piece of history.

  They went with Vernon in the PIO station wagon to the satellite van. On the
  way Partridge began drafting the words he would shortly speak. Rita told
  him, "Make your script a minute forty-five. As soon as you're ready, cut
  a sound track, do a closing standup. Meanwhile, I'll feed quick and dirty
  to New York."
  As Partridge nodded acknowledgment, Rita glanced at her watch: 5:43 P.m.,
  6:43 in New York. For the first-feed National Evening News, there was
  barely fifteen minutes left of broadcast time.
  Partridge was continuing to write, mouthing words silently, changing what
  he had already written. Minh handed two precious tape cassettes to Rita,
  then put a fresh cassette in the camera, ready for Partridge's audio track
  and standup close.
  Vernon dropped them immediately alongside the satellite van. Broderick, who
  had come too, was going on to the terminal to phone his own report to New
  York. His parting words were, "Thanks, guys. Remember, if you want the
  in-depth dope tomorrow, buy the Time& "
  O'Hara, the high-technology buff, regarded the equipmentpacked satellite
  van admiringly. "How I love these babies!"
  The fifteen-foot-wide dish mounted on the van's platform body was now fully
  open and elevated with a 20-kilowatt generator running. Inside, in a small
  control room with editing and transmitting equipment tightly packed in
  tiers, a technician from the two-man crew was aligning the van's uplink
  transmitter with a Ku-band satellite 22,300 miles above themSpacenet 2.
  Whatever they transmitted would go to transponder 21 on the satellite, then
  instantly by downlink to New York to be rerecorded.
  Inside the van, working alongside the technician, Rita expertly ran Minh's
  tape cassettes through an editing machine,
            The Evening News      29

 viewing them on a TV monitor. Not surprisingly, she thought, the pictures
 were superb.
  On normal assignments, and working with an editor as an extra team member,
  producer and editor together would select portions of the tapes, then, over
  a sound track of a correspondent's comments, put all components together
  as a fully edited piece. But that took forty-five minutes, sometimes
  longer, and today there wasn't time. So, making fast decisions, Rita chose
  several of the most dramatic scenes which the technician transmitted as
  they were-in TV jargon, "quick and dirty."
  Outside the satellite van, seated on some metal steps, Partridge completed
  his script and, after conferring briefly with Minh and the sound man,
  recorded a sound track.
  Having allowed for the anchorman's introduction, which would be written in
  New York and have the story's up-front facts, Partridge began:
  "Pilots in a long-ago war called it comin'in on a wing and a prayer. There
  was a song with that name . . . It's unlikely anyone will write a song
  about today.
  "The Muskegon Airlines Airbus was sixty miles out from Dallas-Fort Worth
  . . . with a near-full passenger load . . . having comefrom Chicago . . .
  when the mid-air collision happened . . .
  As always, when an experienced correspondent wrote for TV news, Partridge
  had written "slightly off the pictures." It was a specialized art form,
  difficult to learn, and some in television never quite succeeded. Even
  among professional writers the talent did not receive the recognition it
  deserved, because the words were written to accompany pictures and seldom
  read well alone.
  The trick, as Harry Partridge and others like him knew, was not to describe
  the pictures. A television viewer would be seeing, visually, what was
  happening on the screen and did not need verbal description. Yet the spoken
  words must not be so far removed from the pictures as to split the viewer's
  consciousness. It was a literary balancing act, much of it instinctive.
  Something else TV news people recognized: The best news writing was not in
  neat sentences and paragraphs. Fragments of
 30         ARTHUR BAILEY

 sentences worked better. Facts must be taut, verbs strong and active; a
 script should crackle. Finally, by manner and intonation the correspondent
 should convey a meaning too. Yes, he or she had to be an excellent reporter,
 but an actor also. At all those things Partridge was expert, though today he
 had a handicap: he had not seen the pictures, as a correspondent normally
 did. But he knew, more or less, what they would be.
  Partridge concluded with a standup-himself, head and shoulders, speaking
  directly to the camera. Behind him, activity was continuing around the
  wrecked Airbus.
  "There is more of this story to come . . . tragic details, the toll of dead
  and injured. But what is clear, even now, is that collision dangers are
  multiplying . . . on the airways, in our crowded skies . . . Harry
  Partridge, CBA News, Dallas-Fort Worth. "
  The cassette with the narration and standup was passed to Rita inside the
  van. Still trusting Partridge, knowing him too well to waste precious time
  checking, she ordered it sent to New York without review. Moments later,
  watching and listening as the technician transmitted, she was admiring.
  Remembering the discussion half an hour earlier in the terminal bar she
  reflected: with his multitalents, Partridge was demonstrating why his pay
  was so much higher than that of the reporter for the New York Times.
  Outside, Partridge was performing still one more of a correspondent's
  duties-an audio report, spoken from notes and largely ad-libbed, for CBA
  Radio News. When the TV transmission was finished, that would go to New
  York by satellite too.
 The Evening News     31

 The CBA News headquarters building in New York was a plain and
 unimpressive eight-story brownstone on the east side of upper Manhattan.
 Formerly a furniture factory, now only the shell of the original structure
 remained, the interior having been remodeled and refurbished many times
 by an assortment of contractors. Out of this piecemeal work had come a
 maze of intersecting corridors in which unescorted visitors got lost.
  Despite the drab domicile of CBA News, the place contained a sultan's
  fortune in electronic wizardry, a considerable portion of it in
  technicians' country, two floors below street level, sometimes referred
  to as the catacombs. And here, among a multitude of functions, was a
  vital department with a prosaic name-the One-inch-tape Room.
  All news reports from CBA crews around the world came in, via satellite
  and occasionally by landline, to the One-inchtape Room. From there, too,
  all taped recordings of finished news went out to viewers, via a
  broadcast control room and again by satellite.
  Endemic to the One-inch-tape Room were enormous pressures, taut nerves,
  tension, instant decision making and urgent commands, especially just
  before and during broadcasts of the National Evening News.
  At such times, someone unaware of what was happening might consider the
  scene disorganized bedlam, a technological nightmare. The impression
  would be heightened by surrounding semidarkness, necessary for watching
  a forest of TV screens.
  But in fact the operation functioned smoothly, quickly and with skill.
  Mistakes here could he disastrous. They rarely happened.
  A half-dozen large and sophisticated reel-to-reel tape ma- 32         ARTHUR HAILEY

 chines, built into consoles and with TV monitors above, dominated the
 activity; the machines used one-inch magnetic tape, the highest-quality and
 most reliable. At each tape machine and console sat a skilled operator
 receiving, editing and transmitting tapes swiftly, according to
 instructions. The operators, older than most workers in the building, were
 a motley group who seemed to take pride in dressing shabbily and behaving
 boisterously. Because of this, a commentator once described them as the
 "fighter pilots" of TV broadcasting.
  Every weekday, an hour or so before National Evening News broadcast time,
  a senior news producer moved down five floors from his seat at the
  Horseshoe to preside over the Oneinch-tape Room and its operators. There,
  acting as a maestro, shouting instructions while sernaphoring with his
  arms, he viewed incoming material for that night's news, ordered further
  editing if necessary, and kept colleagues at the Horseshoe informed of
  which expected items were now in-house and how, at first glance, each
  looked.
  Everything, it always seemed, arrived at the One-inch-tape Room in haste
  and late. It was a tradition that producers, correspondents and editors
  working in the field polished and repolished their pieces until the last
  possible moment, so that most came in during the half hour before the
  broadcast and some after the broadcast had begun. There were even
  nail-biting occasions when the front half of a report was going out from
  one tape recorder and being broadcast while the back portion was still
  feeding into another machine. During those moments nervous, sweating
  operators pushed themselves to the limit of their skills.
  The senior producer most often in charge was Will Kazazis, Brooklyn-born of
  an excitable Greek family, a trait he had inherited. His excitability,
  though, seemed to fit the job and despite it he never lost control. Thus it
  was Kazazis who received Rita Abrams' satellite transmission from DFW-first
  Minh Van Canh's pictures sent "quick and dirty," then Harry Partridge's
  audio track, concluding with his standup.
  The time was 6:48 . . . ten minutes of news remaining. A commercial break
  had just begun.
            The Evening News      33

  Kazazis told the operator who had taken the feed in, "Slap it together
  fast. Use all of Partridge's track. Put the best pictures over it. I
  trust you. Now move, move, move!"
  Through an aide, Kazazis had already let the Horseshoe know that the
  Dallas tape was coming in. Now, by phone, Chuck Insen, who was in the
  broadcast control room, demanded, "How is it?"
  Kazazis told the executive producer, "Fantastic! Beautiful! Exactly what
  you'd expect of Harry and Minh."
  Knowing there wasn't time to view the piece himself, and trusting
  Kazazis, Insen ordered, "We'll go with it after this commercial. Stand
  by."
  With less than a minute to go, the tape operator, perspiring in his
  air-conditioned work space, was continuing to edit, hurriedly combining
  pictures, commentary and natural sound.

  Insert's command was repeated to the anchorman and a writer seated near
  him. A lead-in was already prepared and the writer passed the single
  sheet to Crawford Sloane who skimmed it, quickly changed a word or two,
  and nodded thanks. A moment later on the anchor's Teleprompter, what were
  to have been the next segment's opening words switched over to the DFW
  story. In the broadcast studio as the commercial break neared its
  conclusion, the stage manager called, "Ten seconds
  . five . . . four . . . two . . ."
  At a hand signal Sloane began, his expression grave. "Earlier in this
  broadcast we reported a midair collision near Dallas between a Muskegon
  Airlines Airbus and a private plane. The private plane crashed There are
  no survivors. The Airbus, on fire, crash-landed at Dallas-Fort Worth
  Airport a few minutes ago and there are heavy casualties. On the scene
  is CBA News correspondent Harry Partridge who has just filed this report.
  "
  Only seconds before had the frantic editing in the One-inchtape Room been
  completed. Now, on monitors throughout the building and on millions of
  TV sets in the Eastern and Midwestern United States and across the
  Canadian border, a dramatic picture of an approaching, burning Airbus
  filled the
 34         ARTHUR BAILEY

 screen and Partridge's voice began, "Pilots in a long-ago war called it
 comin' in on a wing and a prayer . . . "
  The exclusive report and pictures had, as the final item, made the
  first-feed National Evening News.

  There would be a second feed of the National Evening News immediately after
  the first. There always was and it would be broadcast-in the East by
  affiliate stations who did not take the first feed, widely in the Midwest,
  and most Western stations would record the second feed for broadcast later.
  The Partridge report from DFW would, of course, lead the second feed and
  while competing networks might, by now, have after-the-fact pictures for
  their second feeds, CBA's while-ithappened pictures remained a world
  exclusive and would be repeated many times in the days to follow.
  There were two minutes between the end of the first feed and the beginning
  of the second and Crawford Sloane used them to telephone Chuck Insen.
  "Listen," Sloane said, "I think we ought to put the Saudi piece back in."
  Insen said sarcastically, "I know you have a lot of pull. Can you arrange
  an extra five minutes' air time?"
  "Don't play games. That piece is important."
  "It's also dull as oil. I say no."
  "Does it matter that I say yes?"
  "Sure it matters. Which is why we'll talk about it tomorrow. Meanwhile, I'm
  sitting here with certain responsibilities."
  "Which include-or ought to-sound judgments about foreign news."
  "We each have our jobs," Insen said, "and the clock is creeping up on
  yours. Oh, by the way, you handled the Dallas thing-at both ends-nicely."
  Without answering, Sloane hung up the telephone at the broadcast desk. As
  an afterthought he told the writer beside him, "Ask someone to get Harry
  Partridge on the phone at Dallas. I'll talk with him during the next break.
  I want to congratulate him and the others."
  The stage manager called out, "Fifteen seconds!"
            The Evening News      35

  Yes, Sloane decided, there would be a discussion between himself and
  Insen tomorrow and it would be a showdown. Perhaps Insen had outlived his
  usefulness and it was time for him to go.

  Chuck Insen was tight-lipped and unsmiling when, after the end of the
  second feed and before going home, he returned to his office to gather
  up a dozen magazines for later reading.
  Reading, reading, reading, to keep informed on a multitude of fronts, was
  a news executive producer's burden. Wherever he was and no matter what
  the hour, Insen felt obliged to reach for a newspaper, a magazine, a
  newsletter, a nonfiction booksometimes obscure publications in all
  categories-the way others might reach for a cup of coffee, a
  handkerchief, a cigarette. Often he awoke in the night and read, or
  listened to overseas news on short-wave broadcasts. At home, through his
  personal computer, he had access to the major news wire services and each
  morning, at 5 A.M., reviewed them all. Driving in to work, he listened
  to radio news-mainly to CBS whose radio network news he, like many
  professionals, acknowledged as the finest.
  It was, as Insen saw it, this widest possible view of the ingredients of
  news, and of subjects which interested ordinary people that made his own
  news judgments superior to those of Crawford Sloane, who thought too
  often in elitist terms.
  Insen had a philosophy about those millions out there who watched the
  National Evening News. What most viewers wanted, he believed, was the
  answers to three basic questions: Is the world safe? Are my home and
  family safe? Did anything happen today that was interesting? Above all
  else, Insen tried to ensure that the news each evening supplied those
  answers.
  He was sick and tired, Insen thought angrily, of the anchorman's
  I-know-best, holier-than-thou attitude about news selection, which was
  why tomorrow the two of them would have a slam-bang confrontation during
  which Insen would say exactly what he was thinking now, and to hell with
  consequences.
  What were those consequences likely to be? Well, in the past, in any kind
  of contest between a network news
 36         ARTHUR HAILEY

 anchorman and his executive producer, the anchor had invariably won, with
 the producer having to look for work elsewhere. But a lot of things were
 changing in network news. There was a different climate nowadays, and there
 could always be a first, with an anchor departing and a producer staying on.
  With just that possibility in mind, a few days ago Insen had had an
  exploratory, strictly confidential phone talk with Harry Partridge. Would
  Partridge, the executive producer wanted to know, be interested in coming
  in from the cold, settling down in New York, and becoming anchor of the
  National Evening News? When he chose to, Harry could radiate authority and
  would fit the part-as he had demonstrated several times by filling in while
  Sloane was on vacation.
  Partridge's response had been a mixture of surprise and uncertainty, but at
  least he hadn't said no. Crawf Sloane, of course, knew nothing of that
  conversation.
  Either way, concerning himself and Sloane, Insen was convinced they
  couldn't go on feuding without some kind of a resolution soon.

                4

 It was 7:40 P.M. when Crawford Sloane, driving a Buick Somerset, left the
 garage at CBA News headquarters. As usual, he was using a CBA car; one was
 always available as part of his employment contract and he could have a
 driver if he wanted, though most of the time he didn't. A few minutes later,
 as he turned onto Fifty-ninth Street from Third Avenue, heading east toward
 the FDR Drive, he continued thinking about the broadcast just concluded.
  At first his thoughts had gone in the direction of Insen, then he decided
  to put the executive producer out of his mind until tomorrow. Sloane had
  not the slightest doubt of his ability to cope with Insen and send him on
  his way-perhaps to a net-
              The Evening News      37

 work vice presidency which, despite the high-sounding title, would be a
 demotion after the National Evening News. It did not occur to Sloane for
 a moment that the reverse of that process could possibly happen. Had it
 been suggested fto him, he would undoubtedly have laughed.
  Instead, he turned his thoughts to Harry Partridge.
  For Partridge, Sloane recognized, the hasty but excellent reporting job
  from Dallas had been one more solid performance in an outstanding
  professional career. Through DFW's airport paging system Sloane had been
  successful in reaching Partridge by phone and had congratulated him,
  asking him to pass on the same message to Rita, Minh and O'Hara. From an
  anchorman that kind of thing was expected-a matter of noblesse obligeeven
  though, where Partridge was concerned, Sloane did it without any great
  enthusiasm. That underlying feeling was why, on Sloane's part, the
  conversation had a touch of awkwardness, as conversations with Partridge
  often did. Partridge had seemed at ease, though he sounded tired.
  Within the moving car, in a moment of silent, private honesty, Sloane
  asked himself- How do I feel about Harry Partridge? The answer, with
  equal honesty, came back: He makes me feel insecure.
  Both question and answer had their roots in recent history.

  The two of them had known each other for more than twenty years, the same
  length of time they had been with CBA News, having joined the network
  almost simultaneously. From the beginning they were successful
  professionally, yet opposites in personality.
  Sloane was precise, fastidious, impeccable in dress and speech; he
  enjoyed having authority and wore it naturally. Juniors were apt to
  address him as "sir" and let him go through doorways first. He could be
  cool, slightly distant with people he did not know well, though in any
  human contact there was almost nothing his sharp mind missed, either
  spoken or inferred.
  Partridge, in contrast, was casual in behavior, his appearance rumpled;
  he favored old tweed jackets and seldom wore a
 38         ARTHUR HAILEY

 suit. He had an easygoing manner which made people he met feel comfortable,
 his equal, and sometimes he gave the impression of not caring much about
 anything, though that was a contrived deception. Partridge had learned early
 as a journalist that he could discover more by not seeming to have authority
 and by concealing his keen, exceptional intelligence.
  They had differences in background too.
  Crawford Sloane, from a middle-class Cleveland family, had done his early
  television training in that city. Harry Partridge served his main TV news
  apprenticeship in Toronto with the CDC-Canadian Broadcasting
  Corporation-and before that had worked as an
  announcer-newscaster-weatherman for small radio and TV stations in Western
  Canada. He had been born in Alberta, not far from Calgary, in a hamlet
  called De Winton where his father was a farmer.
  Sloane had a degree from Columbia University. Partridge hadn't even
  finished high school, but in the working world of news his de facto
  education expanded rapidly.
  For a long time at CBA their careers were parallel; as a result they came
  to be looked on as competitors. Sloane himself considered Partridge a
  competitor, even a threat to his own progress. He was not sure, though, if
  Partridge ever felt the same way.
  The competition between the two had seemed strongest when both were
  reporting the war in Vietnam. They were sent there by the network in late
  1967, supposedly to work as a team, and in a sense they did. Sloane,
  though, viewed the war as a golden opportunity to advance his own career;
  even then he had the anchor desk of the National Evening News clearly in
  his sights.
  One essential in his advancement, Sloane knew, was to appear on the evening
  news as often as possible. Therefore, soon after arriving in Saigon he
  decided it was important not to stray too far from "Pentagon
  East"-headquarters of the United States Military Assistance Command for
  Vietnam (MACV) at Tan Son Nhut air base, five miles outside Saigon-and,
  when he did travel, not to be away too long.
  He remembered, even after all these years, a conversation
            The Evening News      39

 between himself and Partridge, who had remarked, "Crawf, you'll never get
 to understand this war by attending the Saigon Follies or hanging around
 the Caravelle." The first was the name the press corps gave to military
 briefings; the second, a hotel that was a popular watering hole for the
 international press, senior military and U.S. Embassy civilians.
  "If you're talking about risks," Sloane had answered huffily, "I'm
  willing to take as many as you are."
  "Forget risks. We'll all be taking them. I'm talking about coverage in
  depth. I want to get deep into this country and understand it. Some of
  the time I want to be free from the military, not just tagging along on
  fire fights, reporting bangbang the way they'd like us to. That's too
  easy. And when I do military stuff I want it to be in forward areas so
  I can find out if what the USIS flacks say is happ~ning really is."
  "To do all that," Sloane pointed out, "you'll have to be away for days,
  maybe weeks at a time."
  Partridge had seemed amused. "I thought you'd catch onto that quickly.
  I'm sure you've also figured that the way I plan to work will make it
  possible for you to get your face on the news almost every night."
  Sloane had been uncomfortable at having his mind read so easily, though
  in the end that was how it worked out.
  No one could ever say about his time in Vietnam that Sloane didn't work
  hard. He did, and he also took risks. On occasion he went along on
  missions to where the Viet Cong were operating, was sometimes in the
  midst of firefights, and in dangerous moments wondered, with normal fear,
  whether he would make it back alive.
  As it turned out, he always did and was seldom away more than twenty-four
  hours. Also, when he came back it was invariably with dramatic combat
  pictures plus human interest stories about young Americans in battle, the
  kind of fare that New York wanted.
  Following his plan shrewdly, Sloane didn't overdo the dangerous exploits
  and was usually available in Saigon for military and diplomatic briefings
  which, at the time, were newsworthy. Only much later would it be realized
  how superficial Sloane's
 40         ARTHUR HAILEY

 kind of coverage had been and how-for television-dramatic pictures were a
 first priority, with thoughtful analysis and sometimes truth trailing far
 behind. But by the time that became apparent, to Crawford Sloane it didn't
 matter.
  Sloane's overall ploy worked. He had always been impressive on camera and
  was even more so in Vietnam. He became a favorite with the New York
  Horseshoe producers and was frequently on the evening news, sometimes three
  or four times a week, which was how a correspondent built up a following,
  not only among viewers but with senior decision makers at CBA headquarters.
  Harry Partridge, on the other hand, stayed with his own game plan and
  operated differently. He sought out deeper stories which required longer
  investigation and which took him, with a cameraman, to more distant parts
  of Vietnam. He made himself knowledgeable about military tactics, American
  and Viet Cong, and why sometimes those of both sides didn't work. He
  studied the balance of forces, stayed in forward areas gathering facts on
  ground- and air-attack effectiveness, casualties and logistics. Some of his
  reports contradicted official military statements in Saigon, others
  confirmed them, and it was that second kind of reporting-faimess to the
  U.S. military-that separated Partridge and a handful of others from the
  majority of correspondents reporting out of Vietnam.
  The bulk of reportage on the Vietnam war was, by that time, negative and
  adversary. A generation of young journalists -some of them sympathetic to
  anti-war protesters at homedistrusted, at times despised, the U.S.
  military, and most media coverage reflected that conviction. An example was
  the enemy's Tet offensive. The media proclaimed Tet as a total, smashing
  communist victory, a claim which calmer research two decades later showed
  to be untrue.
  Harry Partridge was one who, at the time, reported that U.S. forces at Tet
  were doing much better than they were being giver! credit for; also that
  the enemy was doing less well than generally reported and had failed in
  some of its objectives. At first senior Horseshoe producers queried those
  reports and
            The Evening News      41

 wanted to delay them. But after discussion, Partridge's record of solid
 accuracy won out and most were aired.
  One Partridge report which was not aired involved a criticism of negative
  personal opinion presented in a news context by the venerable Walter
  Cronkite, then anchorman for CBS.
  Cronkite, reporting from Vietnam, declared during a CBS "post-Tet special"
  that "the bloody experience of Vietnam" would "end in stalemate," and "for
  every means we have to escalate, the enemy can match us . . ."
  He continued, "To say that we are closer to victory today is to believe .
  . . the optimists who have been wrong in the past." Therefore, Cronkite
  urged, America should "negotiate, not as victors, but as an honorable
  people who lived up to their pledge to defend democracy, and did the best
  they could."
  Because of its source, this strong editorializing-intertwined with honest
  news-had tremendous effect and gave, as a commentator put it, "strength and
  legitimacy to the anti-war movement." President Lyndon Johnson was reported
  as saying that if he had lost Walter Cronkite, he had lost the country.
  Partridge, through interviews with a series of people on the scene, managed
  to suggest that not only might Cronkite be wrong but that, well aware of
  his power and influence, the CBS anchorman had behaved, in one
  interviewee's words, "like an unelected President and contrary to his own
  vaunted tenets of impartial journalism."
  When Partridge's piece reached New York it was discussed for hours and went
  to the highest CBA levels before a consensus was reached that to attack the
  national father figure of "Walter" would be a no-win gambit. However,
  unofficial copies of the Partridge report were made and circulated
  privately among TV news insiders.
  Partridge's excursions into areas of heavy fighting usually kept him away
  from Saigon for a week, sometimes longer. Once, when he went underground
  into Cambodia, he was out of touch for nearly a month.
  Every time, though, he returned with a strong story, and after the war some
  were still remembered for their insights. No
 42         ARTHUR BAILEY

 one, including Crawford Sloane, ever disputed that Partridge was a superb
 journalist.
  Unfortunately, because his reports were fewer and therefore less frequent
  than Sloane's, Partridge didn't get noticed nearly as much.
  Something else in Vietnam affected the future of Partridge and Sloane. She
  was Jessica Castillo.
  Jessica . . .

  Crawford Sloane, driving almost automatically over a route he traveled
  twice each working day, had by now turned off Fifty-ninth Street onto York
  Avenue. After a few blocks he swung right to the northbound ramp of the FDR
  Drive. Mo-' ments later, alongside the East River and free from intersec-
  tions and traffic lights, he allowed his speed to increase. His home in
  Larchmont, north of the city on Long Island Sound, was now half an hour's
  driving time away.
  Behind him, a blue Ford Tempo increased its speed also.
  Sloane was relaxed, as he usually was at this time of day, and as his
  thoughts drifted they returned to Jessica . . . who, in Saigon, had been
  Harry Partridge's girlfriend . . . but in the end had married Crawford
  Sloane.

  In those days, in Vietnam, Jessica had been twenty-six, slim, with long
  brown hair, a lively mind and, on occasion, a sharp tongue. She took no
  nonsensefrom thejournalists with whom she dealt as a junior information
  officer at the United States Information Agency (known as USIS overseas).
  The agency had its headquarters on Le Qui Don Street, in the tree-shrouded
  'Eincoln Library" which used to be the Rex Theater, and the old theater
  sign remained in place throughout the USIS tenure. Members of the press
  went to the agency sometimes more than they needed, bringing queries that
  they hoped might allow them time with Jessica.
  Jessica played along with the attention, which amused her. But in her
  affections when Crawford Sloane first knew her, Harry Partridge was firmly
  number one.
            The Evening News      43

  Even now, Sloane thought, there were areas in that early relationship
  between Partridge and Jessica of which he had no knowledge, some things
  he had never asked about and now would never know. But the fact that
  certain doors had been closed more than twenty years ago, and had
  remained closed ever since, never had . . . never would . . . stop him
  wondering about the details and intimacies of those times.

                5

 Jessica Castillo and Harry Partridge were drawn instinctually to each
 other the first time they met in Vietnam-even though the meeting was
 antagonistic. Partridge had gone to USIS seeking information that he knew
 existed but that had been refused him by the United States military. It
 concerned the widespread drug addiction of American troops in Vietnam.
  Partridge had seen plenty of evidence of addiction during his travels
  through forward areas. The hard drug being used was heroin and it was
  plentiful. Through Stateside inquiries made at his request by CBA News,
  he learned that veterans' hospitals back home were filling up alarmingly
  with addicts sent back from Vietnam. It was becoming a national problem,
  rather than just military.
  The New York Horseshoe had given a green light to pursue the story, but
  official sources had clammed up tight and would provide no information.
  When he entered Jessica's cubicle office and broached the subject, she
  reacted in the same way. "I'm sorry. That's something I can't talk about.
  "
  Her attitude offended him and he said accusingly, "You mean you won't
  talk because you've been told to protect somebody. Is it the ambassador,
  who might be embarrassed by the truth?"
  She shook her head "I can't answer that either.
 44         ARTHUR BAILEY

  Partridge, growing angry, bored in hard. "So what you're telling me is
  that you, in this cozy billet, don't give a goddamn about the GIs out in
  the jungle who are shit-scared, suffering, and then-for an outlet,
  because they don't know any betterdestroy themselves with drugs, becoming
  junkies. "
  She said indignantly, "I said nothing of the kind.
  "Oh, but you said exactly that. "His voice was contemptuous. "You said
  you won't talk about something rotten and stinking which needs a public
  airing, needs people to know a problem exists so something can be done.
  So other green kids coming out here can be warned and maybe saved. Who
  do you think you're protecting, lady? For sure, not the guys doing the
  fighting, the ones who count. You call yourself an information officer.
  I call you a concealment officer. "
  Jessica flushed. Unused to being talked to that way, her eyes blazed with
  anger. A glass paperweight was on her desk and her fingers clenched
  around it. For a moment Partridge expected her to throw it and prepared
  to duck. Then, noticeably, the anger diminished and Jessica asked
  quietly, ""at is it you want to know?"
  Partridge moderated his tone to match hers. "Statistics mostly. I know
  someone has them, that records have been kept, surveys taken. "
  She tossed back her brown hair in a gesture he would later become used
  to and love. "Do you know Rex Talbot?"
  "Yes. " Talbot was a young American vice-consul at the Embassy on Thong
  Nhut Street, a few blocks away.
  "I suggest you ask him to tell you about the MACV Project Nostradamus
  report. "
  Despite the seriousness, Partridge smiled, wondering what kind of mind
  dreamed up that title.
  Jessica continued, "There's no need to have Rex know I sent you. You
  could let him think you know . . . "
  He finished the sentence. ". . . a little more than I really do. It's an
  o1djournalist's trick "
  "The kind of trick you just used on me.
  "Sort of, " he acknowledged with a smile.
            The Evening News      45

  "I knew it all the time, " Jessica said. "Ijust let you get away with it.
  "
  "You're not as soulless as I thought, " he told her. "How about exploring
  that subject some more over dinner tonight?"
 To her own surprise, Jessica accepted.
  Later, they discovered how much they enjoyed each other's company and it
  turned out to be thefirst of many such meetings. For a surprisingly long
  time, though, their meetings remained no more than that, which was
  something Jessica, with her blunt, plain speaking, made clear at the
  beginning.
  "I'd like you to understand that whatever else goes on around here, I am
  no pushover. If I go to bed with someone it has to mean something special
  and important to me, and also to the other person, so don't say you weren't
  warned. " Their relationship also endured long separations, due to
  Partridge's travels to other parts of Vietnam.
  But inevitably a moment came when desire overwhelmed them both.
  They had dined together at the Caravelle, where Partridge was staying.
  Afterward, in the hotel garden, an oasis of quiet amid the discord of
  Saigon, he had reached for Jessica and she came to him eagerly. As they
  kissed, she clung tightly, urgently, and through her thin dress he sensed
  her physical excitement. Years later, Partridge would remember that time
  as one of those rare and magic moments when allproblems and concerns-Viet-
  nam, the war's ugliness, future uncertainties-seemedfar away, so all that
  mattered was the present and themselves.
 He asked her softly, "Shall we go to my room?"
 Without speaking, Jessica nodded her consent.
  Upstairs in the room, with the only lightingfrom outside and while they
  continued to hold each other, he undressed her and she helped him where his
  6nds proved awkward.
 As he entered her, she told him, "Oh, I love you sol"
  Long after, he could never remember if he told her that he truly loved her
  too, but knew he had and always would.
  Partridge was also deeply moved by the discovery that Jessica had been a
  virgin. Then, as time went by and their lovemaking
 46         ARTHUR BAILEY

 continued, they found the same delight in each other physically that they
 had in other ways.
  In any other time and place they might have married quickly. Jessica wanted
  to be married; she also wanted children. But Partridge, for reasons he
  afterward regretted, held back In Canada he had had one failed marriage and
  knew that marriages of TV newsmen so often were disastrous. TV news corre-
  spondents led peripatetic lives, could be away from home two hundred days
  a year or more, were unused tofamily responsibilities and encountered
  sexual temptations on the road which few could permanently resist. As a
  result, spouses often grew away from each other-intellectually as well as
  sexually. When reunited after long absences, they met as strangers.
  Combined with all that was Vietnam. Partridge knew his life was at risk
  each time he left Saigon and, though luck had been with him so far, the
  odds were against that luck enduring. So it wasn't fair, he reasoned, to
  burden someone else-in this case Jessica-with persistent worry, and the
  likelihood of heartbreak later on.
  He confided some of this to Jessica early one morning after they had spent
  the night together, and he could not have picked a worse occasion. Jessica
  was shocked and jolted by what she perceived as a puerile cop-out by a man
  to whom she had already given her heart and body. She told Partridge coldly
  that their relationship was at an end
  Only much later did Jessica realize she had misread what, in reality, was
  kindness and deep caring. Partridge left Saigon a few hours afterward, and
  that was the time he went into Cambodia and was away a month.
  Crawford Sloane had met Jessica several times while she was in Harry
  Partridge's company, and saw her occasionally in the USIS offices when he
  had queries that took him there. On all occasions Sloane was strongly
  attracted to Jessica and longed to know her better. But recognizing she was
  Partridge's girl, and being punctilious in such matters, he had never asked
  her for a date, as others often did.
  But when Sloane learned, from Jessica herself that she and Partridge had
  "split up, " he promptly asked Jessica to dine with
            The Evening News      47

 him. She agreed to, and they went on seeing each other. Two weeks later,
 confiding that he had loved herfor a long timefrom a distance and now with
 closer knowledge adored her, Sloane proposed marriage.
  Jessica, taken by surprise, asked for time to think
  Her mind was a tumult of emotions. Jessica's love for Harry had been
  passionate and all-consuming. No man had ever swept her away as he had
  done; she doubted if anyone ever would again. Instinct told her that what
  she and Harry had shared was a once-in-a-lifelime experience. And she
  still loved him, she was sure of that. Even now Jessica missed him
  desperately; if he came back and asked her to marry him she would
  probably say yes. But, clearly, Harry wasn't going to ask He had rejected
  her and Jessica's bitterness and anger lingered A part of her wanted to
  . . . just show him! So there!
  On the other hand, there was Crawf Jessica liked Crawford Sloane . . .
  No-more than that! . . . She felt a strong affectionfor him. He was kind
  andgentle, loving, intelligent, interesting to be with. And Crawf was
  solid. He possessed-Jessica had to admit--a stability that Harry, while
  an excitingperson, sometimes lacked Butfor a lifetime, which was how
  Jessica saw marriage, which of the two loves on different levels---one
  with excitement, the other with stability-was more important? She wished
  she could be positive about the answer.
  Jessica might also have asked herself the question, but did not: Why make
  a decision at all? Why not wait? She was still young . . .
  Unacknowledged, but implicit in her thinking, was the presence of all of
  them in Vietnam. The fervor of war surrounded them; it was all-pervading
  like the air they breathed There was a sense of time being compressed and
  accelerated, as if clocks and calendars were running at extra speed Each
  day of life seemed to spill in a precipitous torrent through the open
  floodgates of a dam. Who among them knew how many days remained? Which
  of them would ever resume a normal pace of living?
  In every war, throughout all human experience, it had been ever thus.
 48         ARTHUR DAILEY

  After weighing everything as best she could, the next day Jessica
  accepted Crawford Sloane's proposal.
  They were married at once, in the U.S. Embassy by an army chaplain. The
  ambassador attended the ceremony and afterward gave a reception in his
  private suite.
  Sloane was ecstatically happy. Jessica assured hersezrthat she was too;
  determinedly she matched Crawf's mood.
  Partridge did not learn of the marriage until his return to Saigon and
  only then did it dawn on him, with overpowering sadness, how much he had
  lost When he met Jessica and Sloane to congratulate them, he tried to
  conceal his emotions. With Jessica, who knew him so well, he did not
  wholly succeed.
  But if Jessica shared some of Partridge's feelings, she kept them to
  herself and also put them behind her. She reasoned that she had made her
  choice and was determined to be a good wife to Sloane which, across the
  years, she was. As in any normal marriage there were some midway
  conflicts and disruptions, but they healed Now-incredibly, it seemed to
  all concerned-lessica and Crawford's silver wedding anniversary was less
  than five years distant.

 At the wheel of the Buick Somerset, Crawford Sloane was midpoint in his
 journey home. The Triboro Bridge behind him, he was on the Bruckner
 Expressway and would shortly join Interstate 95, the New England Thruway,
 exiting at Larchmont.
  The same Ford Tempo that had followed him from CBA News headquarters was
  still behind.
  It was not surprising that Sloane had failed to notice the other car,
  either tonight or on other occasions during the past several weeks when
  it had followed him. One reason was that the driver-a young, thin-lipped,
  cold-eyed Colombian cur-
              The Evening News      49

 rently using the code name Carlos-was expert at stalking any quarry.
  Carlos, who had entered the United States two months earlier using a forged
  passport, had been involved in this stealthy surveillance for almost four
  weeks, along with six others from Colombia-five men and a woman. Like
  Carlos, the others were identified only by fictitious first names, which
  in most cases covered criminal records. Until their present task began, the
  members of the group were unknown to one another. Even now, only Miguel,
  the leader, who tonight was several miles away, was aware of real
  identities.
  The Ford Tempo had been repainted twice during the short period of its use.
  Also, it was just one of several vehicles available, the objective being
  not to create a detectable pattern.
  What had accumulated from the surveillance was a precise and detailed study
  of Crawford Sloane's movements and those of his family.
  In the fast-moving expressway traffic, Carlos allowed three other cars to
  move up between himself and Sloane, though keeping the tailed Buick still
  in sight. Beside Carlos, another man noted the time and made an entry in
  a log. This was Julio -swarthy, argumentative and bad-tempered, with an
  ugly scar from a knifing down the left side of his face. He was the group's
  communications specialist. Behind them, in the back seat, was a mobile
  cellular phone, one of six that linked vehicles and a hidden temporary
  headquarters.
  Both Carlos and Julio were ruthless, trained marksmen and were armed.

  After slowing down and negotiating a traffic diversion caused by a multiple
  rear-end collision in the Thruway's left lane, Sloane resumed his speed and
  also his thoughts about Vietnam, Jessica, Partridge and himself.
  Despite his own great success in Vietnam and since, Crawford Sloane had
  continued to worry about Partridge, just a little. It was why he was
  slightly uncomfortable in Partridge's company. And on a personal level he
  occasionally wondered:
 50         ARTHUR HAILEY

 Did Jessica ever think about Harry, remembering the privileged, private
 moments there must have been between them?
  Sloane had never asked his wife any truly intimate questions about her
  long-ago relationship with Harry. He could have done so many times,
  including at the beginning of their marriage, and Jessica, being Jessica,
  would probably have answered frankly. But posing that kind of question was
  simply not Sloane's style. Nor, he supposed, did he really want to know the
  answers. Yet, paradoxically, after all these years those old thoughts came
  back to him at times with newer questions: Did Jessica still care about
  Harry? Did the two of them ever communicate? Did Jessica, even now, have
  residual regrets?
  And professionally . . . Guilt was not a word that preoccupied Sloane in
  relation to himself, but down in some private corner of his soul he knew
  that Partridge had been the better journalist in Vietnam, though he himself
  gained more acclaim and on top of that married Partridge's girl . . . All
  of it illogical, he knew, an insecurity that need not be . . . but the vis-
  ceral unease persisted.
  The Ford Tempo had now switched places and was several vehicles ahead of
  Sloane. The Larchmont exit from the Thruway was only a few miles farther
  on and Carlos and Julio, by this time knowing Sloane's habits, were aware
  that he would exit there. Getting ahead of a quarry on occasion was an old
  trick of tailing. Now the Ford would take the Larchmont exit first, be
  waiting for Sloane when he turned off, then would fall in behind him once
  more.
  Some ten minutes later, as the CBA anchorman entered the streets of
  Larchmont, the Ford Tempo followed discreetly at a distance, stopping well
  short of the Sloane house which was located on Park Avenue, facing Long
  Island Sound.
  The house, befitting someone with Sloane's substantial income, was large
  and imposing. Painted white under a gray slate roof, it was set in a
  sculptured garden with a circular driveway. Twin pine trees marked the
  entrance. A wrought-iron lantern hung over double front doors.
            The Evening News      51

  Sloane used a remote control in the car to open the door of a three-car
  garage, then drove in, the door closing behind him.
  The Ford moved forward and, from a discreet distance, the surveillance
  continued.

 Sloane could hear voices and laughter as he walked through a short, closed
 corridor between the garage and the house. They stopped as he opened a door
 and entered the carpeted hallway onto which most of the downstairs rooms
 opened. He heard Jessica call out from the living room, "Is that you,
 Crawf?"
  He made a standard response. "If it isn't, you're in trouble."
  Her melodious laugh came back, "Welcome, whoever you are! Be with you in a
  minute."
  He heard a clink of glasses, the sound of ice being shaken, and knew that
  Jessica was mixing martinis, her nightly homecoming ritual to help him
  unwind from whatever the day had brought.
  "Hi, Dad!" the Sloanes' eleven-year-old son, Nicholas, shouted from the
  stairway. He was tall for his age and slimly built. His intelligent eyes
  lit up as he ran to hug his father.
  Sloane returned the embrace, then ran his fingers through the boy's curly
  brown hair. It was the kind of greeting he appreciated, and he had Jessica
  to thank for that. Almost from the time Nicky was born, she had conveyed to
  him her belief that feelings about loving should be expressed in tactile
  ways.
  At the beginning of their marriage, being demonstrative did not come easily
  to Sloane. He held back in matters of emotion, left certain things unsaid,
  to be assumed by the other party. It was part of his built-in reserve, but
  Jessica would have none of it, had worked hard at smashing the reserve and,
  for herself, then Nicky, had succeeded.
 52         ARTHUR HAILEY

  Sloane recalled her telling him early on, "When you're married, darling,
  barriers come down. It's why we were 'joined together'-remember those
  words? So for the rest of our lives, you and I are going to say to each
  other exactly what we feeland sometimes show it too."
  That final phrase had been about sex, which for a long time after their
  marriage held surprises and adventure for Sloane. Jessica had acquired
  several of the explicit, illustrated sex books which were plentiful in the
  East and loved to experiment, trying new positions. After being slightly
  shocked and diffident at first, Sloane came around to enjoying it too,
  though it was always Jessica who took the lead.
  (There were times when he couldn't help wondering: Had she owned those sex
  books when she and Partridge were going together? Had they made use of what
  was in them? But Sloane had never summoned the nerve to ask, perhaps
  because he feared both answers might be yes.)
  With other people his reserve lived on. Sloane couldn't remember when he
  had last hugged his own father, though a few times recently he had
  considered doing so but held back, uncertain how old Angus-stiff, even
  rigid in his personal behaviormight react.
  "Hello, darling!" Jessica appeared wearing a soft green dress, a color he
  always liked. They embraced warmly, then went into the living room. Nicky
  came in for a while, as he usually did; he had eaten dinner earlier and
  would go to bed soon.
  Sloane asked his son, "How's everything in the music world?"
  "Great, Dad. I'm practicing Gershwin's Prelude Number Two."
  His father said, "I remember that. Didn't Gershwin write it when he was
  young?"
  "Yes, twenty-eight."
  "Near the beginning, I think, it goes dum-de-dah-dum-
  DEE-da-da-de-dum-de-dum-de-dum-de-dum." As he attempted to sing, Nicky and
  Jessica laughed.
  "I know the part you mean, Dad, and maybe why you re-            The Evening News      53

 member it." Nicky crossed to a grand piano in the room, then sang in a clear
 young tenor, accompanying himself

       "In the sky the bright stars glittered On the bank thepale moon
       shone And from Aunt Dinah's quilting party I was seeing Nellie
       home. "

  Sloane's forehead creased with an effort of memory. "I've heard that
  before. Isn't it an old song from the Civil War days?"
  Nicky beamed. "Right on, Dad!"
  "I think I understand," his father said. "What you're telling me is, some
  of those notes are the same as in Gershwin's Prelude Two."
  Nicky shook his head. "The other way 'round-the song was first. But no one
  knows if Gershwin knew the song and used it, or if it was just chance."
  "And we'll never know." Amused, and impressed with Nicky's knowledge,
  Sloane exclaimed, "I'll be damned!"
  Neither he nor Jessica could remember exactly how old Nicky had been when
  he began to exhibit an interest in music, but it was in his very early
  years and now music was Nicky's dominant concern.
  Nicky had gravitated to the piano and took lessons from a former concert
  pianist, an elderly Austrian living in nearby New Rochelle. A few weeks
  earlier, speaking with a heavy accent, the tutor had told Jessica, "Your
  son already has a mastery of music unusual for his age. Later he may follow
  one of several paths-as a performer or composer, or perhaps a scholar and
  savant. But more important is that for Nicholas, music speaks with the
  tongues of angels and of joy. It is part of his soul. It will, I predict,
  be the mainstream of his life."
  Jessica glanced at her watch. "Nicky, it's getting late."
  "Ah, Mom, let me stay up! Tomorrow's a school holiday."
  "And your day will be as full as any other. The answer is no.,,
  Jessica was the family disciplinarian and, after affectionate
 54         ARTHUR DAILEY

 good-nights, Nicky left. Soon after, they could hear him playing on a
 portable electronic keyboard in his bedroom which he used when the
 living-room piano was unavailable.
  In the softly lighted room, Jessica returned to the martinis she had been
  mixing earlier. Watching her dispense them, Sloane thought, How lucky can
  you get? It was a feeling he often had about Jessica and the way she looked
  after more than twenty years of marriage. She no longer wore her hair long
  and didn't bother to conceal streaks of gray. There were also lines around
  her eyes. But her figure was slim and shapely and her legs still brought
  men's eyes back for a second glance. Overall, he thought, she really hadn't
  changed and he still felt proud to enter a room, any room, with Jessica
  beside him.
  As she handed him a glass she commented, "It sounded like a rough day?"
  "It was pretty much that way. You watched the news?"
  "Yes. Those poor passengers on that airplane! What a terrible way to die!
  They must have known for the longest time they didn't have a chance, then
  just had to sit there, waiting."
  With a pang of conscience, Sloane realized he hadn't thought about that at
  all. Sometimes as a professional news person you became so preoccupied with
  gathering the news, you forgot the human beings who made it. He wondered:
  Was it callousness after long exposure to the news or a necessary
  insulation, the kind acquired by doctors? He hoped it was the second, not
  the first.
  "If you saw the airplane story," he said, "you saw Harry. What did you
  think?"
  "He was good."
  Jessica's answer seemed indifferent. Sloane watched her, waiting for more,
  wondering: In her mind, was the past completely dead?
  "Harry was better than good. He did it like that," Sloane said, snapping
  his fingers. "Without warning. With hardly any time." He went on to
  describe CBA's luck in having the crew in the DFW terminal. "Harry, Rita
  and Minh all came through. We beat the pants off the other networks."
            The Evening News      55

  "Harry and Rita seem to be working a lot together. Is something going on
  there?"
  "No. They're simply a good working team."
  "How do you know?"
  "Because Rita's having an affair with Les Chippingham. The two of them
  think nobody knows. Of course everybody does."
  Jessica laughed. "My god! You're an incestuous little group."
  Leslie Chippingham was the president of CBA News. It was Chippingharn whom
  Sloane intended to see the next day about the removal of Chuck Insen as
  executive producer.
  "Don't include me in any of that," he told Jessica. "I'm happy with what
  I have at home."
  The martini had relaxed him, as it always did, though neither he nor
  Jessica was a heavy drinker. One martini plus a glass of wine with dinner
  was their limit, and during the day Sloane never drank at all.
  "You're feeling good tonight," Jessica said, "and you have another reason
  to." She got up and from a small bureau across the room brought back an
  envelope, already opened-a normal procedure since Jessica handled most of
  their private business. "It's a letter from your publisher and a royalty
  statement."
  He took the papers out and studied them, his face lighting with a smile.
  Crawford Sloane's book The Camera and the Truth had been published several
  months earlier. Written with a collaborator, it was his third.
  In terms of sales, the book got off to a slow start. The New
 York critics savaged it, leaping at the opportunity to humble
 someone of Crawford Sloane's stature. But in places like Chi
 cago, Cleveland, San Francisco and Miami, reviewers liked the
 book. More important, a ' s weeks passed, certain comments in it
 gained attention in general news columns-the best kind of
 publicity any book can have.
  In a chapter about terrorism and hostages Sloane had written bluntly of
  "the shame most Americans felt after the 198687 revelations that the U.S.
  Government bought freedom for a
 56         ARTHUR DAILEY

 handful of our hostages in the Middle East at the expense of thousands of
 Iraqi deaths and mutilations, not only on the Iran-Iraq battlefield but
 among civilians."
  The war casualties, he pointed out, resulted from weaponry supplied by the
  U.S. to Iran in payment for the hostages' release. "A modem dirty thirty
  pieces of silver" was how Sloane had described the payment, and he quoted
  Kipling's Dane-geld.-
  
   We never pay any-one Dane-geld,
   No matter how trifling the cost;
   For the end of that game is oppression and shame,
   And the nation thatplays it is lostl

  Other applauded Sloane remarks were:
  -No politician anywhere has the guts to say it aloud, but hostages,
  including American hostages, should be regarded as expendable. Pleas from
  hostages'families should be heard sympathetically, but should not sway
  government policy.
  -The only way to deal with terrorists is by counterterrorism, which means
  whenever possible seeking out and covertly destroying them-the only
  language they understand It includes not striking bargains with terrorists
  or paying ransom, directly or indirectly, everl
  -Terrorists who observe no civilized code should not expect, when caught
  red-handed, to shelter under laws and principles which they despise. The
  British, in whom respectfor law is deeply ingrained, have been forced to
  bend that law at times in defending themselvesfrom a depraved and ruthless
  IRA.
  -No matter what we do, terrorism will not go away because the governments
  and organizations backing terrorists don't really want settlements or
  accommodations. They are fanatics using other fanatics and perverted
  religions as their weapons.
  - We who live in the United States will not remain freefrom terrorism in
  our own backyard much longer. But neither mentally nor in other ways are we
  preparedfor this pervasive, ruthless kind of warfare.
  When the book came out, some of CBA's brass were ner-            The Evening News      57

 vous about the "hostages should be regarded as expendable" and "covertly
 destroying" statements, fearing they would create political and public
 resentment of the network. As it turned out, there was no reason for
 concern and the executives quickly joined the chorus of approval.
  Sloane beamed as he put aside the impressive royalty accounting.
  "You deserve what's happened and I'm proud of you," Jessica said.
  "Especially because it isn't like you to take chances in being
  controversial." She paused. "Oh, by the way, your father phoned. He's
  arriving early tomorrow and would like to stay a week."
  Sloane grimaced. "That's pretty soon after the last time."
  "He's lonely and he's getting old. Maybe if you're that way someday
  you'll have a favorite daughter-in-law you'll want to be with."
  They both laughed, knowing how fond Angus Sloane was of Jessica and vice
  versa, and that in some ways the two were closer than the father and son.
  Angus had been living alone in Florida since the death of Crawford's
  mother several years earlier.
  "I enjoy having him around the house," Jessica said. "So does Nicky."
  "Okay then, that's fine. But while Dad's here, try to use your great
  influence to stop him sounding off so much about honor, patriotism and
  all the rest."
  "I know what you mean. I'll do what I can."
  Behind the exchange was the fact that the elder Sloane could never quite
  let go of his World War 11 hero status-as an Army Air Forces lead
  bombardier who won a Silver Star and the Distinguished Flying Cross.
  After the war he had been a certified public accountant-not a spectacular
  career, though on retirement it provided him a reasonable pension and
  independence. But the military years continued to dominate Angus's
  thoughts.
  While Crawford respected his father's war record, he knew the old man
  could be tedious when launched on one of his favorite themes-"the
  disappearance nowadays of integrity and
 58         ARTHUR HAILEY

 moral values," as he was apt to put it. Jessica, though, managed to let
 her father-in-law's preachments flow over her.
  Talk between Sloane and Jessica continued over dinner, always a favorite
  time. Jessica had a maid come in daily but prepared dinner herself,
  managing to be organized so that she spent minimal time in the kitchen
  after her husband's arrival for the evening.
  Sloane said thoughtfully, "I know what you meant back there, that it
  isn't like me to venture out on limbs. I guess, in my life, I haven't
  taken chances as often as I might. But I felt strongly about some things
  in the book. Still do."
  "The terrorism part?"
  He nodded. "Since that was written I've done some thinking about how
  terrorism might, how it could, affect you and me. It's why I've taken
  some special precautions. Until now I haven't told you, but you ought to
  know."
  While Jessica regarded him curiously, he went on. "Have you ever thought
  that someone like me could be kidnapped, become a hostage?"
  "I have when you've been overseas."
  fie shook his head. "It could happen here. There's always a first and I,
  like some others on television, work in a goldfish bowl. If terrorists
  begin operating in the U.S.-and you know I believe they will, quite
  soon-people like me will be attractive bait because anything we do, or
  is done to us, gets noticed in a big way."
  "What about families? Could they be targets too?"
  "That's highly unlikely. Terrorists would be after a name. Someone
  everybody knows."
  Jessica said uneasily, "You spoke of precautions. What kind?"
  "The kind that would be effective after I'd been taken hostage-if it
  happened. I've worked it out with a lawyer I know, Sy Dreeland. He has
  all the details, and authority to make them public if and when that's
  needed."
  "I don't much like this conversation," Jessica said. "You're making me
  nervous, and how can precautions be any good after something bad has
  already happened?"
            The Evening News      59

  "Before it happens," he said, "I have to trust the network to provide
  some kind of security protection, and they do that now, more or less. But
  afterward, just as I said in the book, I wouldn't want any kind of ransom
  to be paid by anyone, including from our own money. So one thing I've
  done is make a solemn declaration-it's all in legal form-to that effect."
  "Are you telling me all our money would be tied up, frozen?"
  He shook his head. "No. I couldn't do that, even if I wanted. Almost
  everything we have-this house, bank accounts, stocks, gold, foreign
  currencies-you and I own jointly and you could do whatever you wanted
  with them, just as you can now. But after that solemn declaration was
  made public and everybody knew the way I felt, I'd like to think you
  wouldn't go some other route."
  Jessica protested, "You'd rob me of the right to make a decision!"
  He said gently, "No, dearest. I'd relieve you of a terrible
  responsibility and a dilemma."
 "But supposing the network were willing to pay a ransom?"
  "I doubt they would be, but certainly not against my wishes which are on
  record in the book and repeated in the declaration."
  "You said the network is giving you some kind of security protection.
  It's the first I've heard of it. Just what kind?"
  "When there are telephoned threats, or screwball letters which sound a
  certain way, or a rumor of some kind of possible attack-it happens at all
  networks and especially to anchor people--then private security men are
  called in. They hang around the CBA News Building, wherever I'm working,
  doing whatever security people are supposed to. It's happened with me a
  few times."
 "You've never told me."
 "No, I guess I never have," he conceded.
  "What else haven't you told me?" There was an edge to Jessica's voice,
  though clearly she had not made up her mind whether to be angry at the
  concealment or just anxious.
 60         ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Nothing else at the network, but there are some other things I've
  arranged with Dreeland."
  "Would it be too much to let me know about those too?"
  "It's important that you know." Sloane ignored the sarcasm which his wife
  sometimes resorted to when emotional. "When someone is kidnapped, no
  matter where in the world, nowadays it's a certainty they will make, or
  be compelled to make, videotape recordings. Then those recordings turn
  up, sometimes are played on television, but no one knows for sure whether
  they were voluntary or forced and, if forced, to what extent. But if
  there's a prearrangement of signals, someone who is taken hostage has a
  good chance of getting a message back that is clearly understood.
  Incidentally, more and more people who might one day be hostages are
  doing that, leaving instructions with their lawyers and establishing a
  signal code."
  "If this weren't so serious, it would sound like a spy novel," Jessica
  said. "So what kind of signals have you arranged?"
  "Licking my lips with my tongue, which is something anyone might do
  without its being noticed, would mean, Y am doing this against my will.
  Do not believe anything I am saying.' Scratching or touching my right
  earlobe would mean, 'My captors are well organized and strongly armed.'
  Doing the same thing to my left earlobe would mean, 'Security here is
  sometimes lax. An attack from outside might succeed' There are some
  others, but we'll leave it for now. I don't want all this to distress
  you."
  "Well, it does distress me," Jessica said. She wondered: Could it happen?
  Could Crawf be kidnapped and spirited away? It seemed unbelievable, but
  almost every day unbelievable things did happen.
  "Apart from fear," she said thoughtfully, "I have to admit some of this
  fascinates me, because it's a side of you I don't believe I've ever seen
  before. But I do wonder why you haven't taken that security course we
  talked about."
  It was an anti-terrorism course put on by a British company, Paladin
  Security, that had been featured on several American news programs. The
  course lasted a week, and in part was intended to prepare people for just
  the possibility
            The Evening News      61

 Sloane had raised-how to behave as a victim in a hostage situation. Also
 taught was unarmed self defense-something Jessica had urged her husband
 to learn after a savage attack on the CBS anchorman Dan Rather on a New
 York street in 1986. The unprovoked attack by two unknown men had sent
 Rather to a hospital; the assailants were never found.
  "Finding time for that course is the problem," Sloane said. "Speaking of
  that, are you still taking CQB lessons?"
  CQB was shorthand for close quarters battle, a specialized version of
  unarmed combat practiced by the elite British Army SAS. The instruction
  was given by a retired British brigadier now living in New York, and that
  was something else Jessica had wanted Crawford to do. But when he simply
  couldn't find time she took the lessons herself.
  "I'm not taking them regularly anymore," she answered. "Though I do an
  hour every month or two to keep refreshed, and Brigadier Wade sometimes
  gives lectures which I go to."
  Sloane nodded. "Good."
  That night, still troubled by what had passed between them, Jessica found
  it difficult to sleep.
  Outside, the occupants of the Ford Tempo watched as one by one the lights
  in the house went off. Then they made a report by cellular phone and,
  ending that day's vigil, drove away.

 Shortly after 6:30 A.M. the surveillance of the Sloanes' Larchmont house
 resumed. A Chevrolet Celebrity was being used this morning, and slouched
 down in the car's front seats-a standard observation technique so the
 occupants would not be noticed by other passing vehicles-were the
 Colombians, Carlos and Julio. The Chevy was parked beyond the Sloane house
 62         ARTHUR HAILEY

 on a convenient side street, the observation being carried on through side
 and rearview mirrors.
  Both men in the car were feeling tense, knowing that this would be a day
  of action, the culmination of long and careful planning.
  At 7:30 A.m. an unforeseen event occurred when a taxi arrived at the Sloane
  house. From the taxi an elderly man carrying a suitcase emerged. He went
  into the house and remained there. The newcomer's unexpected presence meant
  a complication and prompted a call by cellular phone to the watchers'
  temporary headquarters some twenty miles away.
  Their efficient communications and ample transport typified an operation
  on which expense had not been spared. The conspirators who had inspired and
  organized the surveillance and what was to follow were expert, resourceful
  and had access to plenty of money.
  They were associates of Colombia's Medellin cartel, a coalition of vicious,
  criminal, fabulously wealthy drug lords. Operating with bestial savagery,
  the cartel had been responsible for countless violent, bloody murders
  including the 1989 assassination of Colombian presidential candidate
  Senator Luis Carlos Gal6n. Since 19 81 more than 220 judges and court
  officials had been murdered, plus police, journalists and others. In 1986,
  a Medellin alliance with the socialist-guerrilla faction M-19 resulted in
  a killing orgy of ninety deaths, including half the members of Colombia's
  Supreme Court.
  Despite the Medellin cartel's repulsive record, it enjoyed close ties with
  the Roman Catholic Church. Several cartel bosses boasted private chapels.
  A cardinal spoke favorably of Medellin's people and a bishop blandly
  admitted taking money from drug traffickers.
  Murder was not the only process by which the cartel ruled. Large-scale
  bribery and corruption financed by the drug lords ran like a massive cancer
  through Colombia's government, judiciary, police and military, beginning
  at topmost levels and filtering to the lowest. A cynical description of the
  drug trade's standard offer to officialdom was plata o plomo-silver or
  lead.
  For a while, through 1989 and 1990 during a wave of hor-            The Evening News      63

 ror following the Galin assassination, cartel leaders were inconvenienced by
 law enforcement efforts against them, including some modest intervention by
 the United States. A retaliatory response, accurately described by the drug
 conspirators as "total war," involved massive violence, bombings and still
 more killings, a process which seemed certain to continue. But survival of
 the cartel and its ubiquitous drug trade-perhaps. with fresh leaders and
 bases-was never in doubt.
  In the present instance, while operating undercover in the United States,
  Medellin was working not for itself but for the Peruvian Maoist-terrorist
  organization Sendero Luminoso, or "Shining Path." Recently in Peru, Sendero
  Luminoso had grown more powerful while the official government became in-
  creasingly inept and weak. Where once Sendero's domain had been limited to
  the Andes Mountains, Huallaga Valley and centers like Ayacucho and Cuzco,
  nowadays its bombing teams and assassination squads roamed the capital
  city, Lima.
  Two strong reasons existed for linkages between Sendero Luminoso and the
  Medellin cartel. First, Sendero customarily employed outside criminals to
  conduct kidnappings which were frequent in Peru, though not widely reported
  by the American media. Second, Sendero Luminoso controlled most of Peru's
  Upper Huallaga Valley where sixty percent of the world's coca crop was
  grown. The coca, in leaf form, was converted to coca paste-the basis of
  cocaine-and afterward flown from remote airstrips to the Colombian cartels.
  In the whole process drug money contributed heavily to Sendero finances,
  the group exacting a substantial tribute both from coca growers and
  traffickers-the Medellin connection among them.
  Now, in the surveillance Chevrolet, the two Colombian hoodlums were
  searching through a collection of Polaroid photos which Carlos, an adept
  photographer, had taken of all persons seen to have entered the Sloane
  house during the past four weeks. The elderly man who had just arrived was
  not among them.
  Julio, on the telephone, spoke in code phrases.
  "A blue package has arrived. Delivery number two. The
 64         ARTHUR BAILEY

 package is in storage. We cannot trace the order." Translated: A man has
 arrived. Delivered by =4 He has gone into the house. We do not know who
 he is; there is no Polaroid of him.
  The sharp-edged voice of Miguel, the project's leader, snapped back
  through the phone, "What is the docket number?"
  Julio, not comfortable with codes, swore softly as he leafed through a
  notebook to decipher the question. It asked him: "at age is this person?
  He looked to Carlos for help. "Un viejo. How old?"
  Carlos took the book and read the question. "Tell him, docket
  seventy-five."
  Julio did, producing another terse question. "Is anything special about
  the blue package?"
  Abandoning code, Julio lapsed into plain language. "He carried a suitcase
  in. Looks like he plans to stay."

  South of Hackensack, New Jersey, in a dilapidated rented house, the man
  whose code name was Miguel silently cursed Julio's carelessness. Those
  pendejos he wasforced to work withl In the code book was a phrase that
  would have answered the question, and he had warned all of them, over and
  over, that on nidio phones anyone could be listening. Scanning devices
  that could eavesdrop on cellular phone conversations were available in
  stores. Miguel had heard of a radio station that used a scanner and
  boasted of foiling several criminal plots.
  iEstzipidosl He simply could not get through to the idiots assigned to
  him-when the success of their mission, plus all their lives and freedoms
  were at stake-the importance of being vigilant, cautious, on guard, not
  just most of the time, but all of it.
  Miguel himself had been obsessively cautious for as long as he could
  remember. It was why he had never been arrested, even though he was on
  "most wanted" lists of police forces in North and South America and some
  in Europe too, including Interpol. In the Western Hemisphere he was
  becoming as keenly sought after as his brother-in-tefforism Abu Nidal,
  on the other side of the Atlantic. About that, Miguel permitted
            The Evening News      65

 himself a certain pride, though never failing to remember that pride could
 beget overconfidence, and that was something else he guarded against.
  Despite all the turmoil he had been a part of, he was still a young man-in
  his late thirties. In appearance he had always been unremarkable, with
  average good looks but no more; anyone passing him on a street might think
  he was a bank clerk or, at best, manager of a small store. In part, this
  was because he worked hard at seeming unimportant. He also made a habit of
  being polite to strangers, but not to the point of creating a memorable
  impression; most who met him casually, not knowing who he was, tended to
  forget having done so.
  In the past, this ordinariness had been Miguel's great good fortune, as was
  the fact that he did not radiate authority. His power of command remained
  hidden except to those on whom he exercised it, and then it was
  unmistakable.
  An advantage to Miguel in his present enterprise was that, although
  Colombian, he could appear and sound American. In the late-1960s and early
  '70s he had attended the University of California at Berkeley as a foreign
  student, majoring in English and patiently learning to speak the language
  without an accent.
  In those days he was using his real name, Ulises Rodriguez.
  His well-to-do parents had provided the Berkeley education. Miguel's
  father, a Bogotd neurosurgeon, hoped his only son would follow him into
  medicine, a prospect in which Miguel had no interest, even then. Instead,
  as the 1970s neared, the son foresaw basic changes ahead for
  Colombia--conversion from a prosperous democratic country with an honest
  legal base to a lawless, unbelievably rich mobsters' haven ruled through
  dictatorship, savagery and fear. The pharaoh's gold of the new Colombia was
  marijuana; it would later be cocaine.
  Such was Miguel's nature that the coming transition did not faze him. What
  he coveted was part of the action.
  Meanwhile he indulged in some action of his own at Berkeley where he
  discovered himself to be totally devoid of conscience and able to kill
  other human beings, swiftly and decisively, without compunction or
  unpleasant aftertaste.
  The first time it happened was after a sexual session with a
 66         ARTHUR HAILEY

 young woman he had met earlier on a Berkeley street while both were getting
 off a bus. Walking from the bus stop, they got into conversation and
 discovered they were both freshmen. She seemed to like him and invited him
 to her apartment, which was at the seedy Oakland end of Telegraph Avenue. It
 was at a time when such encounters were normal, long before the AIDS-anxiety
 era.
  After some energetic sex he fell asleep, then awakened to find the girl
  quietly looking through the contents of his wallet. In it were several
  identification cards in fictitious names; even then he was practicing for
  his international beyond-the-law future. The girl was too interested in the
  cards for her own good; perhaps she was some kind of informant, though he
  never found out.
  What he did was spring from the bed, seize and strangle her. He still
  remembered her look of unbelief as she thrashed around, trying to release
  herself; then she looked up at him with desperate, silent pleading just
  before consciousness ebbed. He was interested, in a clinical way, to
  discover that killing her did not trouble him at all.
  Instead, with icy calm he calculated his chances of being caught, which he
  assessed as nil. While on the bus the two of them had not sat together; in
  fact they had not known each other. It was unlikely that anyone observed
  them walking away from the bus stop. On entering the apartment building,
  and in an elevator going to the fourth floor, they encountered no one.
  Taking his time, he used a cloth to wipe the few surfaces where he might
  have left fingerprints. Then, using a handkerchief to cover his right hand,
  he turned out all lights and left the apartment, allowing the door to lock
  behind him.
  He avoided the elevator and went down by the emergency stairs, checking
  that the lobby was empty before passing through it to the street outside.
  The next day, and for several days after, he watched local newspapers for
  any item about the dead girl. But it was nearly a week before her partially
  decomposed body was discovered, then after two or three days more, with no
  developments and
            The Evening News      67

 apparently no clues, the newspapers lost interest and the story
 disappeared.
  Whatever investigation there was had not connected him with the girl's
  murder.
  During Miguel's remaining years at Berkeley he killed on two other
  occasions. Those were across the Bay in San Francisco-what he supposed
  could be called "thrill killings" of total strangers, though he
  considered both as serving a need to hone his developing mercenary
  skills. He must have honed them well because in neither case was he a
  suspect, or even questioned by police.
  After Berkeley, and home in Colombia, Miguel flirted with the developing
  alliance of mad-dog drug lords. He had a pilot's license and made several
  flights conveying coca paste from Peru to Colombia for processing. Soon
  a developing friendship with the infamous but influential Ochoa family
  helped move him on to larger things. Then came M-19 with its orgy of
  murders and the Medellin cartel's "total war," beginning in late 1989.
  Miguel participated in all the major killings, many minor ones, and had
  long since lost count of the corpses in his wake. Inevitably his name
  became known internationally, but due to his meticulous precautions there
  was little else on record.
  Miguel's---or Ulises Rodriguez's---connections with the Medellin cartel,
  M-19 and, more recently, Sendero Luminoso, expanded as the years went by.
  Through it all, though, he maintained his independence, becoming an
  international outlaw, a gun-for-hire terrorist who was, because of his
  efficiency, constantly in demand.
  Of course, politics was supposedly a part of it all. Miguel was by
  instinct a socialist, hated capitalism passionately and despised what he
  thought of as the hypocritical, decadent United States. But he was also
  skeptical about politics of any kind and simply enjoyed, as one might an
  aphrodisiac, the danger, risk and action of the life he led.
  It was that kind of life which had brought him to the United States a
  month and a half ago, to work undercover, preparing for what would happen
  today, which the entire world would shortly learn of.
 68         ARTHUR HAILEY

  The route he had originally planned to the U.S. was roundabout but
  safe-from Bogotd, Colombia, through Rio de Janeiro to Miami. In Rio he
  would change passports and identities, appearing in Miami as a Brazilian
  publisher en route to a New York book fair. But an undercover contact in
  the American State Department had warned Medellin that U.S. Immigration at
  Miami had urgently requested all available information on Miguel,
  especially about identities he was known to have used in the past.
  Miguel had, in fact, used the Brazilian publisher identity once before and
  although he believed it was still unexposed, it seemed wiser to avoid Miami
  altogether. Therefore, even though it meant some delay, he flew from Rio
  to London where he acquired an entirely new identity and a brand-new,
  official British passport.
  The process was easy.
  Ah, the innocent democraciesl How stupid and nalve they were! How simple
  it was to subvert their vaunted freedoms and open systems to advance the
  purposes of those who, like Miguel, believed in neither!
  He had been briefed, before reaching London, on how it was done.

  First he went to St. Catherine's House, at the junction of Kingsway and A
  ldwych, where births, marriages and deaths for England and Wales are
  recorded There Miguel appliedfor three birth certificates.
  "ose birth certificates? Those of anyone whose date of birth was the same
  as, or close to, his own.
  Without speaking to anyone or being questioned, he picked upfive blank
  birth certificate applications, then walked to where a series of large
  volumes were on shelves, identified under various years. Miguel-chose 1951.
  The volumes were divided into quarters of the year. He selected M to R,
  October-December.
  His own birth date was November 14 that year. Leafing through pages, he
  came across the name "Dudley Martin" who had been born in Keighley,
  Yorkshire, on November 13. The name seemed suitable; it was neither too
  distinctive nor as obvi-
              The Evening News      69

 ously common as Smith. lPerfecto! Miguel copied the details onto one of
 the red-printed application forms.
  Now he needed two other names. It was his intention to apply for three
  passports; the second and third applications would be backups in case
  anything went wrong with thefirst. It was always possible that a current
  passport had already been issued to the same Dudley Martin. In that case
  a new one would be refused
  He copied the remaining names onto two moreforms. Deliberately, he had
  selected surnames whose initial letters were widely spacedfrom the "M"
  of Martin; one began with "B, " the other "Y " That was because, at the
  Passport Office, different clerks handled different letter groups of
  applications. The spread ensured that the three applications would be
  dealt with by separate persons, so any similarity would not be noticed
  At allpoints Miguel was careful not to touch any of theforms on which he
  wrote. That was why he had picked up five forms, the two outside ones
  were to protect the others from his fingerprints and he would destroy
  those later. He had learned since Berkeley that nothing could take away
  fingerprints totally, not even careful wiping-new high-tech fingerprint
  tests the Ninhydrin and ion-argon laser, would reveal them.
  Next was a short walk to a cashier's window. There he presented the three
  applications, still managing not to touch any of those he would leave.
  A male cashier asked him for a fee offive pounds for each certificate,
  which he paid in cash. He was told the birth certificates would be ready
  in two days' time.
  During those intervening days he arranged to use three accommodation
  addresses.
  From Kelly's London Business Directory he noted several secretarial
  agencies to whose unembellished street addresses mail could be sent and
  then collected Going to one of the agencies, he pa id a fee offifty pou
  nds, again cash. He had a cover story ready -that he was starting a small
  business but could not yet afford an office or secretary. As it turned
  out, no questions were asked He repeated the process at two other
  agencies which were equally incurious. He now had three separate
  addresses for the trio of passport applications, none of them traceable
  to himself.
  Then, making use of automatic photography machines, he
 70         ARTHUR HAILEY

 obtained three sets ofpassport photographs, each time varying his
 appearance. For one picture he applied a neat mustache and beard, in another
 he was clean-shaven and changed his hair parting, for the third he wore
 heavy, distinctive glasses.
  Next day he collected the three birth certificates from St. Catherine's
  House. As before, no one was in the least interested as to why he wanted
  them.
  He had already obtained passport applications from a post office, again
  being careful not to touch them. Now, wearing disposable plastic gloves,
  he completed the forms. On each, as the applicant's address he used one of
  the accommodation addresses already arranged.
  Two photographs had to accompany each passport application. One photo was
  required to have on it a statement by a '~7rofessionally qualified person,
  " such as a doctor, engineer or lawyer, identifying the applicant; also the
  same person affirmed that he or she had known the applicant for at least
  two years. Based on advice he had received, Miguel wrote and signed the
  statements himset(, disguising his handwriting and using names and
  addresses selected at random from a phone book. He had also bought a rubber
  stamp set which he used to make the names and addresses more convincing.
  Despite a warning on the passportform that checks of support signatories
  were made, in fact they rarely were, and the chance of a false statement's
  being discovered was extremely remote. There were simply too many
  applications and too small a staff.
  Finally, Miguel dealt with the three "identified" photosthose that had
  writing on them and therefore would not appear in any of the passports he
  was applyingfor, but were destinedfor Passport Office file& Using a soft
  sponge, he applied a weak solution of Domestos, a household bleach similar
  to the North American product Clorox. This ensured that within two or three
  months the photographs on file wouldfade and blur, and thus no picture
  would exist of Miguel, alias Dudley Martin or the other names.
  Now Miguel mailed the three applications, each with a postal order for
  fifteen pounds, knowing it would take at least four
            The Evening News      71

 weeks for the passports to be processed and sent back. It was a tedious
 wait but, for safety's sake, worthwhile.
  During this hiatus he mailed several letters to himself at the
  accommodation addresses. In each instance, after waiting a day or two he
  telephoned to inquire whether mail was there, and when the answer was
  '~ves" stated that a messenger would make the collection. He then used
  unknown youthsfrom the streetfor the pickups, paying them a few pounds
  and, before revealing himself afterward, watching carefully to ensure
  that none was followed. It was Miguel's intention to collect the
  passports when delivered, in the same way.
  All three passports arrived within a few days of each other during
  thefifth week and were collected without a hitch. When the third was in
  his hands, Miguel smiled to himself. iExcelente! He would use the Dudley
  Martin passport now, retaining the other twoforfuture use.
  One final step remained-to buy a round trip ticket to the United States.
  Miguel did so that same day.
  Before 1988, all holders of British passports required a visa to enter
  the U.S. Now a visa was not needed, provided the intended visit would not
  exceed ninety days and the traveler possessed a return ticket. Though
  Miguel had no intention of using his return portion and later would
  destroy it, its cost was trifling compared with the risk of another sally
  through bureaucracy. As to the ninety-day rule, it made no difference to
  him either way. While he did not expect to stay that long in the U.S.,
  when he left it would be either secretly or with another identity, the
  Dudley Martin passport having been discarded
  America's rule change about visas had delighted Miguel. Once more those
  convenient open systems were being helpful to his kind!
  The next morning he flew to New York and, at John F Kennedy Airport, was
  admitted without hindrance.

  After reaching New York, Miguel went immediately to where a sizable
  Colombian community lived in the borough of Queens and where a safe house
  had been arranged by a Medellin cartel agent.
 72         ARTHUR BAILEY

  "Little Colombia" in Jackson Heights extended from Sixtyninth to
  Eighty-ninth streets. A thriving narcotics center, it was one of New
  York's most dangerous high-crime areas where violence was a hiccup and
  murder commonplace. Uniformed police officers seldom ventured there
  alone, and even in pairs did not move around on foot at night.
  The district's reputation did not bother Miguel at all; in fact, he
  thought of it as protection while he began his planning, drew on money
  made secretly available, and assembled the small force he would lead.
  That force's seven members, including Miguel, had been selected in
  BogotA.
  Julio, at this moment on surveillance duty, and Socorro, the only woman
  in the group, were Colombians who had been 4.sleeping agents" of
  Medellin. Several years ago both were sent to the United States,
  ostensibly as immigrants, their only instructions to establish themselves
  and wait until such time as their services were needed for drug-related
  activity or some other criminal purpose. That time had now arrived.
  Julio was a communications specialist. Socorro, during her waiting
  period, had trained and qualified as a nursing aide.
  Socorro had an additional affiliation. Through friends in Peru she had
  become a sympathizer and part-time U.S. agent for the revolutionary
  Sendero Luminoso. Among Latin Americans such crossovers between
  politically motivated and profitmotivated crime were common and now,
  because of her dual connection, Socorro held a watching role also on
  Sendero's behalf.
  Of the remaining four, three others were Colombians, who had been
  assigned the code names Rafael, Luis and Carlos. Rafael was a mechanic
  and general handyman. Luis had been chosen for his driving skills; he was
  expert at eluding pursuit, especially from crime scenes. Carlos was
  young, quick-witted and had organized the surveillance of the past four
  weeks. All three spoke English fluently and had been in the U.S. several
  times before. On this occasion they had come in unknown to each other and
  using forged passports with false names. Their instructions were to make
  themselves known to the same Me-
              The Evening News      73

 dellin agent who arranged Miguel's safe house, after which they received
 orders directly from Miguel.
  The final member of the group was an American, his name for this
  operation, Baudelio. Miguel mistrusted Baudelio totally, yet this man's
  knowledge and skills were essential to the mission's chances of success.

  Now, in Hackensack at the Colombian group's temporary operating center,
  thinking about the renegade American, Baudelio, Miguel felt a surge of
  frustration. It compounded his anger with Julio for the careless lapse
  into plain language during the telephoned report from outside the Sloane
  house in Larchmont. Still holding the telephone, disciplining himself to
  subdue personal feelings, Miguel considered his reply.
  The surveillance report had referred to a man aged about seventy-five,
  who arrived at the Sloane house a few minutes earlier with a suitcase he
  had carried inside-in Julio's careless words, "like he plans to stay."
  Before leaving Bogoti, Miguel had received extensive intelligence, not
  all of which he had shared with the others under his command. Included
  in this dossier was the fact that Crawford Sloane had a father who fitted
  the description of the new arrival. Miguel reasoned: Well, if the old man
  had joined his son, expecting to see him for a while, it constituted a
  nuisance but nothing more. The father would almost certainly have to be
  killed later that day, but that presented no problem.
  Depressing the telephone transmitter, Miguel ordered, "Take no action
  about the blue package. Report new billing only." "New billing" meant:
  if the situation changes.
  "Roger," Julio acknowledged curtly.
  Replacing the cellular phone, Miguel glanced at his watch. Almost 7:45
  A.M. In two hours all seven members of his group would be in place and
  ready for action. Everything that would follow had been carefully
  planned, with problems anticipated, precautions taken. When the action
  started, some improvisation might be needed, but not much.
 74         ARTHUR DAILEY

  And there could be no postponement. Outside the United States, other
  movements, dovetailing with their own, were already in motion.

                 9

 Angus Sloane gave a contented sigh, put down his coffee cup and patted his
 mouth and silver-gray mustache with a napkin. "I'll state positively," he
 declared, "that no better breakfast has been served this morning in all
 of New York State."
  "And not one with higher cholesterol either," his son said from behind
  an opened New York Times across the table. "Don't you know all those
  fried eggs are bad for your heart? How many was it you had? Three?"
  "Who's counting?" Jessica said. "Besides, you can afford the eggs, Crawf.
  Angus, would you like another?"
  "No thank you, my dear." The old man, sprightly and cherubic-he had
  turned seventy-three a few weeks earliersmiled benevolently at Jessica.
  "Three eggs isn't many," Nicky said. "I saw a late movie once about a
  Southern prison. Somebody in it ate fifty eggs."
  Crawford Sloane lowered the Times to say, "The movie you're speaking of
  was Cool Hand Luke. It starred Paul Newman and came out in 1967. I'm
  sure, though, that Newman didn't really eat those eggs. He's a fine actor
  who convinced you that he did."
  "There was a salesman here once from the Britannica," Jessica said. "He
  wanted to sell us an encyclopedia. I told him we already had one, living
  in."
  "Can I help it," her husband responded, "if some of the news I live with
  sticks to me? It's like fluff, though. You can never tell which bits will
  stay in memory and what will blow away."
  They were all seated in the bright and cheerful breakfast
            The Evening News      75

 room, which adjoined the kitchen. Angus had arrived a half hour earlier,
 embracing his daughter-in-law and grandson warmly and shaking hands more
 formally with Crawford.
  The constraint between father and son-sometimes translating to irritation
  on Crawford's part-had existed for a long time. Mainly it had to do with
  differing ideas and values. Angus had never come to terms with the easing
  in national and personal moral standards which had been accepted by most
  Americans from the 1960s onward. Angus ardently believed in "honor, duty
  and the flag"; further, that his fellow countrymen should still exhibit the
  uncompromising patriotism that existed during World War 11- -the high point
  of Angus's life, about which he reminisced ad infinitum. At the same time
  he was critical of many of the rationales that his own son, in his news-
  gathering activities, nowadays accepted as normal and progressive.
  Crawford, on the other hand, was intolerant of his father's thinking which,
  as Crawford saw it, was rooted in antiquity and failed to take into account
  the greatly expanded knowledge on all fronts-notably scientific and
  philosophical-in the fourplus decades since World War 11. There was another
  factor, too -a conceit on Crawford's part (though he would not have used
  that word) that having attained the top of his professional tree, his own
  judgments about world affairs and the human condition were superior to most
  other people's.
  Now, in the early hours of this day, it already appeared that the gap
  between Crawford and his father had not narrowed.
  As Angus had explained on countless other occasions, and did so once again,
  all his life he had liked to arrive wherever he was going early in the
  morning. It was why he had flown from Florida to La Guardia yesterday,
  stayed overnight with an American Legion crony who lived near the airport,
  then, soon after dawn, came to Larchmont by bus and taxi.
  While the familiar recital was proceeding, Crawford had raised his eyes to
  the ceiling. Jessica, smiling and nodding as if she had never heard the
  words before, had prepared for Angus his favorite bacon and eggs, and for
  herself and the other two served a more healthful homemade granola.
 76         ARTHUR BAILEY

  "About my heart and eggs," Angus said-he sometimes took a few minutes to
  absorb a remark that had been made, and then returned to it-"I figure if
  my ticker's lasted this long, I shouldn't worry about that cholesterol
  stuff. Also, my heart and I have been in some tight spots and come through
  them. I could tell you about a few."
  Crawford Sloane lowered his newspaper enough to catch Jessica's eye and
  warn her with a glance: Change the subject quick, before he gets launched
  on reminiscences. Jessica gave the slightest of shrugs, conveying in body
  language: If that's what you want, do it yourself.
  Folding the Times, Sloane said, "They have the casualty figures here from
  that crash at Dallas yesterday. It's pretty grim. I imagine we'll be doing
  follow-up stories through next week."
  "I saw that on your news last night," Angus said. "It was done by that
  fellow Partridge. I like him. When he does those bits from overseas,
  especially about our military forces, he makes me feel proud to be American
  too. Not all your people do that, Crawford."
  "Unfortunately there's a joker in there, Dad," Sloane said. "Harry
  Partridge isn't American. He's a Canadian. Also you'll have to do without
  him for a while. Today he starts a long vacation." Then he asked curiously,
  "Who, of our people, doesn't make you feel proud?"
  "Just about all the others. It's the way almost all you TV news folk have
  of denigrating everything, especially our own government, quarreling with
  authority, always trying to make the President look small. No one seems to
  be proud of anything anymore. Doesn't that ever bother you?"
  When Sloane didn't answer, Jessica told him, sotto voce, "Your father
  answered your question. Now you should answer his."
  "Dad," Sloane said, "you and I have been over this ground before, and I
  don't think we'll ever have a meeting of the minds. What you call
  'denigrating everything' we in the news business think of as legitimate
  questioning, the public's right to know. It's become a function of news
  reporting to challenge the
            The Evening News      77

 politicians and bureaucrats, to question whatever we're toldand a good thing
 too. The fact is, governments lie and cheatDemocrat, Republican, liberal,
 socialist, conservative. Once in office they all do it.
  "Sure we who seek out the news get tough at times and occasionally-I admit
  it-go too far. But because of what we do, a lot of crookedness and
  hypocrisy gets exposed, which in older days those in power got away with.
  So because of sharper news coverage, which TV pioneered, our society is a
  little better, slightly cleaner, and the principles of this country nudged
  nearer what they should be.
  "As to presidents, Dad, if some of them look small, and most of them have,
  they've accomplished that themselves. Oh sure, we news guys help the
  process now and then, and that's because we're skeptics, sometimes cynics,
  and often don't believe the soothing syrup that presidents hand out. But
  skulduggery in high places, all high places, gives us plenty of reason to
  be the way we are."
  "I wish the President sort of belonged to everybody, not one party," Nicky
  said. He added thoughtfully, "Wouldn't it have been better if the Founding
  Fathers had made Washington the king, and Franklin or Jefferson the
  President? Then Washington's kids and their children and grandchildren
  could have been kings and queens, so we'd have a head of state to feel
  proud of and a President to blame for things, the way the British do with
  their prime minister."
  "America's great loss, Nicky," his father said, "is that you weren't at the
  Constitutional Convention to push that idea. Despite Washington's kids
  being adopted, it's more sensible than a lot else that happened then and
  since."
  They all laughed, then becoming serious Angus said, "The reporting in my
  war-that's World War II to you, Nicky-was different from what it is today.
  We had the feeling then that those who wrote about it, talked on the radio,
  were always on our side. It's not that way anymore."
  "It was a different war," Crawford said, "and a different time. Just as
  there are new ways of gathering news, concepts
 78         ARTHUR DAILEY

 about news change too. A lot of us don't believe anymore in 'My country
 right or wrong.'"
  Angus complained, "I never thought I'd hear a son of mine say that."
  Sloane shrugged. "Well, you're hearing it now. Those of us who aim at truth
  in news want to be sure our country's right, that we're not being fed
  hocus-pocus by whoever is in charge. The only way you can find out about
  that is to ask tough, probing questions."
  "Don't you believe there were tough questions asked in my war?"
  "Not tough enough," Sloane said. He paused, wondering whether to go
  farther, then decided he would. "Weren't you one of those who went on the
  first B- 17 bombing raid to Schweinfurt?"
  "Yes." Then to Nicholas: "That was deep in Germany, Nicky. At the time, not
  a nice place to go."
  With a touch of ruthlessness, Crawford persisted. "You told me once that
  the objective at Schweinfurt was to destroy ballbearing factories, that
  those in charge of the bombing believed they could bring Germany's war
  machine to a halt because it had to have ball bearings."
  Angus nodded slowly, knowing what was coming. "That's what they told us."
  "Then you also know that after the war it was discovered that it didn't
  work. Despite that raid and others, which cost so many American lives,
  Germany never was short of ball bearings. The policy, the plans, were
  wrong. Well, I'm not saying that the press in those days could have stopped
  that awful waste. But nowadays questions would be asked-not after it was
  over, but while it was happening, so the questioning and public knowledge
  would be a restraint and probably lessen the loss of life."
  As his son spoke, the old man's face was working, creased by memory and
  pain. With the others' eyes upon him he seemed to diminish, to sink into
  himself, suddenly to become older. He said, his voice quavering, "At
  Schweinfurt we lost fifty B-17s. There were ten people in a crew. That's
  five hun-
              The Evening News      79

 dred fliers lost that single day. And in that same week of October '43,
 we lost another eighty-eight B-17s-near enough nine hundred people." His
 voice dropped to a whisper. "I was on those raids. The worst thing
 afterward was at night being surrounded by so many empty beds---of people
 who didn't come back. In the night, waking up, looking around me, I used
 to wonder, Why me? Why did I get back-in that week and others after-when
 so many didn't?"
  The effect was salutary and moving, causing Sloane to wish he had not
  spoken, hadn't tried to score a debater's point against his father. He
  said, "I'm sorry, Dad. I didn't realize how much I was opening an old
  wound."
  As if he had not heard, his father went on, "They were good men. So many
  good men. So many of my friends."
  Sloane shook his head. "Let's leave it. As I said, I'm sorry."
  "Gramps," Nicky said. He had been listening intently. "When you were in
  the war, doing those things, were you frightened very much?"
  "Oh god, Nicky! Frightened? I was terrified. When the flak was exploding
  all around, throwing out razor-sharp hunks of steel that could cut you
  into slices . . . when the German fighters swarmed in, with guns and
  cannon firing and you always thought they were aiming just at you . . .
  when other B- 17s went down, sometimes in flames or in tight spirals so
  you knew the crews could never get out to use their parachutes . . . all
  of it at 27,000 feet, in air so cold and thin that if the fear made you
  sweat it froze, and even with oxygen you could hardly breathe . . . Well,
  my heart was in my mouth and sometimes, it seemed, my guts too."
  Angus paused. There was silence in the breakfast room; somehow this was
  different from his usual reminiscing. Then he went on, speaking only to
  Nicky who was following every word, so there seemed a communion between
  the two, the old man and the boy.
  "I'll tell you something, Nicky, and it's something I've never told a
  soul before, not anybody in this world. One time I was so scared, I ."
  He glanced around as if appealing for
 understanding. ".I was so scared, I messed my pants."
 80         ARTHUR BAILEY

  Nicky asked, "What did you do then?"
  Jessica, concerned for Angus, seemed about to interrupt but Crawford
  gestured her to silence.
  The old man's voice strengthened. Visibly, a little of his pride returned.
  "What could I do? I didn't like it, but I was there, so I got on with what
  I'd been sent for. I was the group bombardier. When the group commander-he
  was our pilotreached the IP and set us on our target course, he told me
  over the intercom, 'It's yours, Angus. Take it.' Well, I was stretched out
  over the Norden bombsight and I steadied myself and took my time. For those
  few minutes, Nicky, the bombardier flew the airplane. I got the target
  exactly in the cross hairs, then the bombs were away. It was the signal to
  the group to release theirs too."
  Angus went on, "So let me tell you, Nicky, there's nothing wrong with being
  scared to death. It can happen to the best. What counts is hanging on,
  somehow staying in control and doing what you know you should."
  "I hear you, Gramps." Nicky's voice was matter-offact and Crawford wondered
  how much he had understood. Probably a good deal. Nicky was smart and
  sensitive. Crawford also wondered if he himself, in the past, had taken the
  trouble to understand as much as he should about his own father.
  He glanced at his watch. It was time to leave. Usually he arrived at CBA
  News at 10:30 A.M.; today though, he would be earlier because he wanted to
  see the division president about firing Chuck Insen as National Evening
  News executive producer. The memory of last night's clash with Insen still
  rankled, and Sloane was as determined as ever to ensure changes in the news
  selection process.
  He rose from the breakfast table and, excusing himself, went upstairs to
  finish dressing.
  Selecting a tie-the same one he would wear on camera that evening-and
  carefully tying it in a Windsor knot, he thought about his father,
  envisaging the scenes the old man had described, in the air over
  Schweinfurt and else*here. Angus, at that time, would have been in his
  early twenties-half Crawford's age now, just a raw kid who had hardly lived
  and
            The Evening News      81

 was terrified he was about to die, most likely horribly. Certainly not
 even during his time as a journalist in Vietnam had Crawford endured
 anything comparable.
  Suddenly he had a pang of conscience for what he had failed to understand
  sooner, in any deep or caring way.
  The trouble was, Crawford thought, he was so caught up professionally in
  each day's current, breaking news that he tended to dismiss the news of
  earlier eras as history and therefore irrelevant to the brimming,
  bustling here and now. That mind-set was an occupational hazard; he had
  seen it in others. But the older news was not irrelevant, and never would
  be, to his father.
  Crawford was well informed. He had read about the raid on Schweinfurt in
  a book, Black Thursday. The author, Martin Caidin, compared the attack
  with the "immortal struggles of Gettysburg, St. Mihiel and the Argonne,
  of Midway and the Bulge and Pork Chop Hill."
  My father, Crawford reminded himself, was a part of that long saga. He
  had never viewed that fact before in quite the same perspective as today.
  He put on the jacket of his suit, inspected himself in the mirror, then,
  satisfied with his appearance, returned below.
  He said goodbye to Jessica and Nicky, then approached his father and told
  the old man quietly, "Stand up."
  Angus seemed puzzled. Crawford repeated himself. "Stand up.
  Pushing his chair back, Angus slowly rose. Instinctively, as he so often
  did, he brought his body to the equivalent of military attention.
  Crawford moved close to his father, put his arms around him, held him
  tight, then kissed him on both cheeks.
  The old man seemed surprised and flustered. "Hey, hey! What's all this?"
  Looking him directly in the eye, Crawford said, "I love you, you old
  coot."
  At the doorway, on the point of leaving, he glanced back. On Angus's face
  was a small, seraphic smile. Jessica's eyes, he saw, were moist. Nicky
  was beaming.
 82         ARTHUR HAILEY

  The surveillance duo of Carlos and Julio were surprised to see Crawford
  Sloane leaving his home by car earlier than usual. They reported the fact
  immediately by code to the leader, Miguel.
  By now, Miguel had left the Hackensack operating center and, accompanied by
  others in a Nissan passenger van equipped with a cellular phone, was
  crossing the George Washington Bridge between New Jersey and New York.
  Miguel was unperturbed. He issued, also in code, the order that prearranged
  plans were now in effect, their time of implementation to be advanced if
  needed. He reasoned confidently: What they were about to do was the totally
  unexpected; it would turn logic upside down, then soon after raise the
  frantic question, Why?

                10

 At about the same time Crawford Sloane left his Larchmont home to drive to
 CBA News headquarters, Harry Partridge awakened in Canada-in Port Credit,
 near Toronto. He had slept deeply and spent the first few moments of the new
 day wondering where he was. It was a frequent experience because he was used
 to waking in so many different places.
  As his thoughts arranged themselves he took in familiar landmarks of an
  apartment bedroom and knew that if he sat up in bed-which he didn't feel
  like doing yet-he would be able to see, through a window ahead, the broad
  expanse of Lake Ontario.
  The apartment was one Partridge used as his base, a retreat, and the
  nomadic nature of his work meant that he got to it for only a few brief
  periods each year. And even though he stored his few possessions here-some
  clothes, books, framed photographs, and a handful of mementos from other
  times and places
            The Evening News      83

 -the apartment was not registered in his name. As a card alongside a bell
 push in the lobby six floors below advised, the official tenant was V.
 Williams (the V for Vivien), who resided here permanently.
  Every month, from wherever in the world Partridge happened to be, he sent
  Vivien a check sufficient to pay the apartment rent and, in return, she
  lived here and kept it as his haven. The arrangement, which had other
  conveniences including casual sex, suited them both.
  Vivien was a nurse who worked in the Queensway Hospital nearby, and he
  could hear her now, moving around in the kitchen. In all probability she
  was making tea, which she knew he liked each morning, and would bring it
  to him soon. Meanwhile he let his thoughts drift back to the events of
  yesterday and the journey the night before on his delayed flight from
  Dallas to Toronto's Pearson International . . .
  The experience at DFW Airport had been a professional one which he took
  in stride. It was Partridge's job to do what he did, a job for which he
  was well paid by CBA News. Yet thinking about it last night and again
  this morning, he was conscious of the tragedy behind the surface of the
  news. From the latest reports he heard, more than seventy aboard the Mus-
  kegon Airlines flight lost their lives, with others critically injured,
  and all six people died aboard the smaller airplane that had collided
  with the Airbus in midair. Today, he knew, many grief-stricken families
  and friends were struggling, amid tears, to cope with their abrupt
  bereavement.
  The thought reminded him that there were times when he wished he could
  cry too, could shed tears along with others because of things he had
  witnessed in his professional life, including perhaps the tragedy of
  yesterday. But it hadn't happened--except on one unparalleled occasion
  which, as it came to mind, he thrust away. What he did remember was the
  first time he ever wondered about himself and his apparent inability to
  cry.

  Early in his reporting career, Harry Partridge was in Britain when a
  tragedy occurred in Wales. It was in Aberfan, a mining
 84         ARTHUR HAILEY

 village where a vast pile of coal waste-slurry-slid down a hillside and
 engulfed a junior school A hundred and sixteen children died
  Partridge was on the scene soon after the disaster, in time to see the dead
  being pulled out. Each small pathetic body, covered with black,
  evil-smelling sludge, had to be hosed down before it was carted awayfor
  identification.
  Around him, watching the same scene, other reporters, photographers,
  police, spectators, were weeping, choking on their tears. Partridge had
  wanted to cry too, but couldn't. Sickened but dry-eyed, he had done his
  reportingjob and gone away.
  Since then there had been countless other witnessed scenes where there was
  cause for tears, but he hadn't cried there either.
  Was there some deficiency, some inner coldness in himsetf? He asked that
  question once of a woman psychiatristfriend, after both of them, following
  an evening of drinking, had been to bed together.
  She told him, "There's nothing wrong with you, or you wouldn't care enough
  to ask the question. "at you have is a defense mechanism which
  depersonalizes what you feel. You're banking it all, tucking the emotion
  away inside you somewhere. One day everything will overflow, crack open,
  and you'll cry. Oh, how you'll cry!"

  Well, his knowledgeable bed partner had been right, and there had come a
  day . . . But again he didn't want to think about it, and pushed the image
  away just as Vivien came into the bedroom, carrying a tray with morning
  tea.
  She was in her mid-forties, with angular, strong features and straight
  black hair, now streaked with gray. While neither beautiful nor
  conventionally pretty, she was warm, easygoing and generous. Vivien had
  been widowed before Partridge knew her and he gathered the marriage had not
  been good, though she rarely talked about it. She had one child, a daughter
  in Vancouver. The daughter occasionally stayed here, though never when
  Partridge was expected.
  Partridge was fond of Vivien though not in love with her, and had known her
  long enough to be aware he never would be.
            The Evening News      85

 He suspected that Vivien was in love with him and would love him more if he
 encouraged it. But as it was, she accepted the relationship they had.
  While he sipped his tea, Vivien regarded Partridge quizzically, noting that
  his normally lanky figure was thinner than it should be; also, despite a
  certain boyishness he still retained, his face showed lines of strain and
  tiredness. His unruly shock of fair hair, now noticeably grayer, was in
  need of trimming.
  Aware of her appraisal, Partridge asked, "Well, what's the verdict?"
  Vivien shook her head in mock despair. "Just look at you! I send you off
  healthy and fit. Two and a half months later you come back looking tired,
  pale and underfed."
  "I know, Viv." He grimaced. "It's the life I lead. There's too much
  pressure, lousy hours, junk food and booze." Then, with a smile, "So here
  I am, a mess as usual. What can you do for me?"
  She said, with a mixture of affection and firmness, "First I'll give you
  a good healthful breakfast. You can stay in bed-I'll bring it to you. For
  other meals you'll have nutritious things like fish and fowl, green
  vegetables, fresh fruit. Right after breakfast I'm going to trim your hair.
  Later, I'm taking you for a sauna and massage-I've already made the
  appointment."
  Partridge lay back and threw up his hands. "I love it!"
  Vivien went on, "Tomorrow, I figured you'll want to see your old cronies
  at the CBC-you usually do. But in the evening I have tickets for an
  all-Mozart concert in Toronto at Roy Thomson Hall. You can let the music
  wash over you. I know you like that. Apart from all that, you'll rest or
  do whatever you wish." She shrugged. "Maybe in between those other things
  you'll feel like making love. You tried last night but were too tired. You
  fell asleep."
  For a moment Partridge felt more gratitude for Vivien than he had ever felt
  before. She was rock-solid, a refuge. Late last night, when his flight
  finally arrived at Toronto Airport, she had been patiently waiting, then
  had brought him here.
  He asked, "Don't you have to work?"
 86         ARTHUR HAILEY

  "I had some vacation due. I've arranged to take it, starting today. One
  of the other nurses will fill in for me."
  He told her, "Viv, you're one in a million."

  When Vivien had gone and he could hear her preparing breakfast,
  Partridge's thoughts returned to yesterday.
  There had been that congratulatory call-they had paged him for it in the
  DFW terminal-from Crawford Sloane.
  Crawf had sounded awkward, as he often was when they talked. There were
  times when Partridge wanted to say, "Look, Crawf, if you think I have any
  grudge against you-about Jessica or your job or anything, forget it! I
  haven't and I never did." But he knew that kind of remark would strain
  their relationship even more, and probably Crawf would never believe it
  anyway.
  In Vietnam, Partridge had known perfectly well that Sloane was taking
  only short air trips so he could hang around Saigon and get on CBA
  network news as often as possible. But Partridge hadn't cared then, and
  still didn't. He had his own priorities. One of them could even be called
  an addiction-the addiction to the sights and sounds of war.
  Wa r . . . the bloody bedlam of battle . . . the thunder and flame of big
  artillery, the whistle scream and awesome crump of falling bombs . . .
  the stentorian chatter of machine guns when you didn't know who was
  firing at whom or from where . . . the near-sensuous thrill of being
  under attack, despite fear that set you trembling . . . all of it
  fascinated Partridge, set his adrenaline flowing, his other juices
  running . . .
  He discovered the feeling first in 'Nam, his initial war experience. It
  had been with him ever since. More than once he had told himself, Face
  it-you love it; then acknowledged, Yes, I do, and a stupid son of a bitch
  I am.
  Stupid or not, he had never objected to being sent to wars by CBA.
  Partridge knew that among his colleagues he was referred to as a
  "bang-bang," the slightly contemptuous name for a TV correspondent
  addicted to war-a worse addiction, it was sometimes said, than to heroin
  or cocaine and with a final ending almost as predictable.
            The Evening News      87

  But they also knew at CBA News headquarters-which was what mattered
  most-that for that kind of news coverage, Harry Partridge was the best.
  Therefore he had not been overly concerned when Sloane won the National
  Evening News anchor chair. Like every news correspondent, Partridge had
  had ideas about getting that topof-the-pile appointment, but by the time
  it happened to Sloane, Partridge was enjoying himself so much it didn't
  matter.
  Strangely, though, the question of the anchorman's job had come up
  recently and unexpectedly. Two weeks ago, during what Chuck Insen warned
  was "a delicate private conversation," the executive producer confided
  to Partridge that there might be major changes soon in the National
  Evening News. "If that happens," Insen had asked, "would you be
  interested in coming in from the cold and anchoring? You do it damn
  well."
  Partridge had been so surprised that he hadn't known how to respond. Then
  Insen had said, "You don't have to answer now. I just want you to think
  about it in case I come back to you later."
  Subsequently, through his own inside contacts, Partridge had learned of
  the ongoing power struggle between Chuck Insen and Crawford Sloane. But
  even if Insen won, which seemed unlikely, Partridge doubted if permanent
  anchoring was something he would want or could even endure. Especially,
  he told himself half mockingly, when in so many places of the world there
  was still the sound of gunfire to be heard and followed.
  Inevitably, when thinking in a personal way about Crawford Sloane, there
  was always the memory of Jessica, though it was never more than memory
  because there was nothing between them now, not even occasional
  communication, and they seldom met socially-perhaps only once or twice
  a year. Nor had Partridge ever blamed Sloane for his loss of Jessica,
  having recognized that his own foolish judgment was the cause. When he
  could have married her, Partridge had decided not to, so Sloane simply
  stepped in, proving himself the wiser of the two, with a better sense of
  values at that time . . .
  Vivien reappeared in the apartment bedroom, bringing
 88         ARTHUR HAILEY

 breakfast in stages. It was, as she had promised, a healthful meal: freshly
 squeezed orange juice, thick hot porridge with brown sugar and milk,
 followed by poached eggs on whole wheat toast, strong black coffee, the
 beans freshly ground, and finally more toast and Alberta honey.
  The thoughtfulness about the honey especially touched Partridge. It
  reminded him, as it was intended to, of his native province where he made
  his start in journalism on local radio. He remembered telling Vivien that
  he had worked for what was known as a 20/20 radio station; it meant that
  rock 'n' roll, the staple programming, was interrupted every twenty minutes
  by a few shouted news headlines ripped from the AP wire. A young Harry
  Partridge had done the shouting. He smiled at the recollection; it seemed
  a long time ago.
  After breakfast, prowling around the apartment in pajamas, he observed,
  "This place is getting tacky. It needs repainting and new furniture."
  "I know," Vivien acknowledged. "I've been after the building owners about
  repainting. But they say this apartment isn't due to have money spent on
  it."
  "Screw 'em! Do it without the owners. You find a painter and order
  whatever's needed. I'll leave enough money before I go.,,
  "You're always generous about that," she said; then added, "do you still
  have that wonderful arrangement where you don't pay income tax?"
  He grinned. "Sure do."
  "To anybody, anywhere?"
  "Not to anyone, and it's perfectly legal and honest. I don't file any
  income tax return, don't have to. Saves a lot of time and money."
  "I've never understood how you manage it."
  "I don't mind telling you," he said, "though normally I don't talk about
  it. People who pay income tax get jealous; that's because misery likes
  company."
  The critical factor, he explained, was being a Canadian citizen, using a
  Canadian passport, and working overseas.
  "What a lot of people don't realize is that the United States
            The Evening News      89

 is the only major country in the world that taxes its citizens no matter
 where they live. Even when Americans reside outside the U.S., they still
 get taxed by Uncle Sam. Canada doesn't do that. Canadians who move out of
 the country aren't liable for Canadian taxes, and once the revenue service
 is satisfied you're gone, they've no further interest in you. The British
 are the same."
  He continued, "The way it works is that CDA News pays my salary each
  month into a New York account I have at Chase Manhattan. From there I
  move the money to accounts in other countries-the Bahamas, Singapore, the
  Channel Islands, where savings cam interest, totally tax-free."
  "What about taxes in countries you go to-those you work in?"
  ,,As a TV correspondent I'm never in one place long enough to be liable
  for tax. That even includes the U.S., provided I'm there no more than 120
  days a year, and you can be sure I never stay that long. As for Canada,
  I don't have a domicile here, not even this one. This is solely your
  place, Viv, as we both know."
  Partridge added, "The important thing is not to cheat-tax evasion's not
  only illegal, it's stupid and not worth the risk. Tax avoidance is quite
  different He stopped. "Hold it! I have something here."
  Partridge produced a wallet and from it extracted a folded, well-fingered
  news clipping. "This is from a 1934 decision by Judge Learned Hand, one
  of America's great jurists. It's been used by other judges many times."
  He read aloud, " 'Any one may so arrange his affairs that his taxes shall
  be as low as possible; he is not bound to choose that pattern which will
  best pay the Treasury; there is not even a patriotic duty to increase
  one's taxes. ' "
  "I can understand why people envy you," Vivien said. "Are there others
  in TV who do the same?"
  "You'd be surprised how many. The tax advantages are a reason Canadians
  like to work overseas for American networks."
  Though he didn't mention them, there were other reasons,
 90         ARTHUR HAILEY

 including U.S. network pay scales, which were substantially higher. But
 even more important, to work for an American network was to have made the
 prestigious "big time" and be on the exciting center stage of world
 affairs.
  For their part, the U.S. networks were delighted to have Canadian
  correspondents, who came to them well trained by CBC and CTV. They had
  learned also that American viewers liked a Canadian accent; it was a
  contributing reason for the popularity of many news figures-Peter
  Jennings, Robert MacNeil, Morley Safer, Allen Pizzey, Barrie Dunsmore,
  Peter Kent, John Blackstone, Hilary Bowker, Harry Partridge, others . .
  .
  Continuing to prowl through the apartment, Partridge saw on a sideboard
  the tickets for the Mozart concert the next day. He knew he would enjoy
  it and was grateful once more to Vivien for remembering his tastes.
  He was grateful too for the three weeks of vacation-restful idleness, as
  he thought of it-that lay ahead.

 Jessica went household shopping every Thursday morning and she intended
 to follow her usual routine today. When Angus learned this, he volunteered
 to accompany her. Nicky, who was home because of a school holiday, asked
 to go as well so he could be with his grandfather.
  Jessica asked doubtfully, "Don't you have some music to practice?"
  "Yes, Mom. But I can do it later. I'll have time."
  Knowing that Nicky was conscientious about practicing, sometimes for as
  long as six hours a day, Jessica raised no objection.
  The three of them left the Park Avenue house in Jessica's Volvo station
  wagon shortly before I I A.M., about an hour and
            The Evening News      91

 a quarter after Crawford's departure. It was a beautiful morning, the
 trees rich with fall colors and sunlight glistening off Long Island Sound.
  The Sloanes' day maid, Florence, was in the house at the time and,
  through a window, watched the trio leave. She also saw a car parked on
  a side street start up and follow in the same direction as the Volvo. At
  the time she gave no thought to the second vehicle.
  Jessica's first stop was, as usual, the Grand Union supermarket on
  Chatsworth Avenue. She parked the Volvo in the store lot, then,
  accompanied by Angus and Nicky, went inside,
  The Colombians, Julio and Carlos, in the Chevrolet Celebrity which had
  trailed the station wagon from a discreet distance, observed their
  movements. Carlos, who had already reported the departure from the house,
  now made another cellular phone call, announcing that "the three packages
  are in container number one."
  This time Julio was driving, and he did not turn into the store parking
  lot, instead making observations from the street outside. Following
  instructions given earlier by Miguel, Carlos now left the Chevy and moved
  on foot to a position near the store. Unlike other days when he had been
  casually dressed, today he was wearing a neat brown suit and tie.
  When Carlos was in place, Julio drove the Chevrolet away, in case it had
  been noticed, to the safe seclusion of the Hackensack operating center.

  When the first of the two phone messages reached Miguel, he was in the
  Nissan passenger van, parked near the New Haven Railroad's Larchmont
  station. The van was inconspicuous, surrounded by other parked vehicles
  left by New York commuters. With Miguel were Luis, Rafael and Baudelio,
  though all four occupants were mostly out of sight because of dark, thin
  plastic sheets covering the side and rear windows. Luis, because of his
  specialized driving skills, was at the wheel.
  When it became known that three people had left the house, Rafael
  exclaimed, "jAyl That means the viejo's along. He'll be in our goddamn
  way."
 92         ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Then we'll 'off' the old fart," Luis said. He touched a bulge in his suede
  jacket. "One bullet will do."
  Miguel snapped, "You'll follow the orders you have. Do nothing else without
  my say-so." He was aware that Rafael and Luis were perpetually aggressive,
  like smoldering fires likely to burst into angry flame. Rafael, heavily
  built, had been a professional boxer for a while and bore visible fight
  scars. Luis had been in the Colombian army-a harsh, rough schooling. There
  could be a time when the belligerence of both men would be useful, but
  until then it needed to be curbed.
  Miguel was already considering the complication of the third person. Their
  long-standing plan had involved, at this point, only the Sloane woman and
  the boy. All along, theynot Crawford Sloane-had been the Sendero
  Luminoso/Medellin objective. The two were to be seized and held as hostages
  for as yet unspecified demands.
  But now the question was how to handle the old man? Killing him, as Luis
  suggested, would be easy, but that could create other problems. Most
  probably Miguel would not make up his mind until the crucial moment, which
  was coming soon.
  One thing was fortunate. The woman and the boy were now together. The
  several weeks of careful surveillance had shown that the woman always
  shopped on Thursday mornings. Miguel had also known that the boy had a
  school holiday today. Carlos, posing on the telephone as a parent, had
  obtained that information from the Chatsworth Avenue grammar school, which
  Nicholas attended. What had remained in doubt was how to corral the woman
  and the boy together. Now, without knowing it, they had solved that problem
  for him.
  When the second message from Carlos came, indicating that all three Sloanes
  were inside the supermarket, Miguel nodded to Luis. "Okay. Roll!"
  Luis put the Nissan van in gear. The next stop, just a halfdozen blocks
  away, would be the store parking lot.
  While they were moving, Miguel turned his head to look at Baudelio, the
  American in the Medellin group, who continued to be a source of worry.
  Baudelio-the name had been chosen for him and, like the
            The Evening News      93

 others, it was an alias-was in his mid-fifties but looked twenty years
 older. Gaunt, lantern-jawed, with a sallow skin and a droopy gray mustache
 he seldom trimmed, he had the appearance of a walking ghost. He had once
 been a medical doctor, a specialist in anesthesiology practicing in Boston,
 and a drunk. When left to his own devices he was still a drunk, but no
 longer a doctor, at least officially. A decade earlier Baudelio's license to
 practice medicine had been revoked for life because while in
                         ';ient undergoing
 an alcoholic haze he had overanesthetized a pa surgery. There had been
 similar lapses before and colleagues had covered for him, but in this
 instance it cost the patient's life and could not be overlooked.
  There had been no future for him in the United States, no family ties, no
  children. Even his wife had left him several years before. He had visited
  Colombia several times and, for want of a better place, decided to go
  there. After a while he found he could use his considerable medical skills
  for shady, sometimes criminal purposes, without arousing any questions. He
  was in no position to be particular and took whatever came his way. Amid
  it all he managed, by reading medical journals, to stay up to date in his
  specialty. This last was why he had been chosen for this assignment by the
  Medellin cartel, for whom he had worked before.
  All of this background had been made known to Miguel in advance, with a
  warning that while the assignment lasted Baudelio was to be deprived of any
  alcohol. Antabuse pills would be used to enforce the prohibition, one pill
  to be taken by the ex-doctor every day. The effect of Antabuse was that
  anyone drinking liquor afterward became violently ill, a fact of which
  Baudelio was well aware.
  Since it was common practice among alcoholics to spit out the pill secretly
  if they wanted to cheat, Miguel was cautioned to be sure the Antabuse was
  always swallowed. While Miguel carried out the instructions, they did not
  please him. In the comparatively short time available he had a multitude
  of responsibilities and acting as a "wet nurse" was one he could have done
  without.
  Also in light of Baudelio's weakness, Miguel decided not to
 94         ARTHUR HAILEY

 trust him with a firearm. Thus he was the only one in the group not armed.
  Now, regarding Baudelio warily, Miguel asked, "Are you ready? Do you
  understand everything that is to be done?"
  The ex-doctor nodded. Briefly a vestige of professional pride returned to
  him. Looking Miguel directly in the eye, he said, "I know precisely what is
  necessary. When the moment comes, you may rely on me, and concentrate on
  what you have to do yourself."
  Not entirely reassured, Miguel turned away. The Grand Union supermarket was
  now directly ahead.
  Carlos saw the Nissan passenger van arrive. The parking lot was not crowded
  and the Nissan entered a conveniently vacant slot alongside Jessica's Volvo
  station wagon. When Carlos had observed this, he turned into the store.

  Jessica gestured to her partly filled shopping cart and told Angus, "If
  there's something you especially like, just drop it in.,,
  Nicky said, "Gramps likes caviar."
  "I should have remembered that," Jessica said. "Let's get some."
  They moved to the gourmet section to discover it was featuring a special
  caviar assortment. Angus, inspecting prices, said, "It's awfully
  expensive."
  Jessica said softly, "Have you any idea how much that son of yours earns?"
  The old man smiled; he kept his voice low too. "Well, I did read somewhere
  it was close to three million dollars a year."
  "Close is right." Jessica laughed; being with Angus always made her feel
  good. "Let's blow some of it." She pointed to a seven-ounce can of beluga
  caviar in a locked display case, priced at $199.95. "We'll have some of
  this with drinks before dinner tonight."
  It was at that moment that Jessica noticed a young man, slightly built and
  well dressed, approaching another woman shopper nearby. He appeared to ask
  a question. The woman shook her head. The young man approached a second
  shopper.
            The Evening News      95

 Again an apparent question and a negative reply. Mildly curious, Jessica
 watched the young man as he approached her.
  "Excuse me, ma'am," Carlos said. "I'm trying to locate someone." He had
  been aware of Jessica all the time but deliberately had not gone to her
  first, instead positioning himself so that she could see him speaking with
  the other people.
  Jessica noticed a Spanish accent, though that was not unusual in New York.
  She also thought the speaker had cold, hard eyes, but that was none of her
  business. All she said was, "Oh?"
  "It's a Mrs. Crawford Sloane."
  Jessica was startled. "I'm Mrs. Sloane."
  "Oh ma'am, I have some bad news for you." The facial expression of Carlos
  was serious; he was playing his part well. "Your husband has been in an
  accident. He's badly injured. The ambulance took him to Doctors Hospital.
  I was sent to find you and take you there. The maid at your house told me
  you would be here."
  Jessica gasped and turned deathly pale. Instinctively her hand went to her
  throat. Nicky, who had returned in time to hear the last few words, looked
  stunned.
  Angus, though equally shocked, was the first to recover and take charge.
  He gestured to the shopping cart. "Jessie, leave all this. Just let's go."
  "It's Dad, isn't it?" Nicky said.
  Carlos answered gravely, "I'm afraid so."
  Jessica put her arm around Nicky. "Yes, dear. We're going to him now."
  "Please come with me, Mrs. Sloane," Carlos said. Jessica and Nicky, still
  dazed by the sudden shattering news, went quickly with the brown-suited
  young man toward the store's main door. Angus followed. Something was
  bothering him, though he wasn't quite sure what.
  Outside in the parking lot, Carlos preceded the others. He moved toward the
  Nissan van. Both doors on the side next to the Volvo were open. Carlos
  could see that the Nissan's engine was running and Luis was in the driver's
  seat. A shadowy form in the back had to be Baudelio. Rafael and Miguel were
  out of sight.
 96         ARTHUR HAILEY

  Alongside the Nissan, Carlos said, "We'll go in this vehicle, ma'am. It
  will be . - ."
  "No, no!" Jessica, tense and anxious, was groping in her purse for car
  keys. "I'll take my car. I know where Doctors Hospital-"
  Carlos interposed himself between the Volvo and Jessica. Grasping her
  arm, he said, "Ma'am, we'd rather you-"
  Jessica attempted to withdraw her arm; as she did, Carlos held her more
  firmly and pushed her forward. She said indignantly, "Stop that! What is
  this?" For the first time Jessica began to think beyond the impact of the
  awful news she had been given.
  A few feet behind, Angus now realized what had been troubling him. Inside
  the store the strange young man had said, "He's badly injured. The
  ambulance took him to Doctors Hospital."
  But Doctors Hospital didn't take emergencies. Angus happened to know
  because over several months the year before he had visited an old Army
  Air Forces comrade who was a patient there and got to know the hospital
  well. Doctors Hospital was big and famous; it was close to Gracie
  Mansion, the mayor's residence, and alongside the route Crawford used on
  the way to work. But emergencies were sent to New York Hospital, a few
  blocks south . . . Every ambulance driver knew it.
  So the young man was lying! The setup in the store had been afakel What
  was happening out here wasn't right either. Two men-Angus didn't like
  their looks at all-had just appeared from around the back of the
  passenger van. One of them, a huge bruiser, had joined the first man;
  they were forcing Jessica inside! Nicholas, a little way behind, was not
  yet involved.
  Angus shouted, "Jessica, don't go! Nicky, run! Get-"
  The sentence was never finished. A pistol butt crashed down on Angus's
  head. There was a fierce, searing pain, everything around him spun, then
  he fell to the ground unconscious. It was Luis who had jumped out of the
  driver's seat, rushed around, and attacked him from behind. In almost the
  same motion, Luis grabbed Nicholas.
            The Evening News      97

  Jessica began screaming and crying out. "Helpl Someoneanyone-please
  help!"
  The burly Rafael, who had joined Carlos in seizing Jessica, now clamped
  a massive hand across her mouth, set another in her back and flung her
  inside the van. Then, jumping in himself, he continued to hold her while
  she screamed and struggled. Jessica's eyes were wild. Rafael snarled at
  Baudelio, "IApi~rate!"
  The ex-doctor, with a medical bag open on the seat beside him, produced
  a gauze pad which moments earlier he had soaked in ethyl chloride. He
  slapped the pad over Jessica's nose and mouth and held it there.
  Instantly Jessica's eyes closed, her body sagged and she became
  unconscious. Baudelio gave a grunt of satisfaction, though he knew the
  effect of ethyl chloride would last only five minutes.
  By now, Nicholas, struggling too, had been hauled inside. Carlos held him
  while he received the same treatment.
  Baudelio, still working quickly, used scissors to cut the sleeve of
  Jessica's dress, then injected the contents of a hypodermic syringe
  intramuscularly into her upper arm. The drug was midazolam, a strong
  sedative that would ensure continued unconsciousness for at least an
  hour. He gave the boy a similar injection.
  Miguel, meanwhile, had dragged the unconscious Angus over to the van.
  Rafael, now freed of Jessica, jumped down and pulled out a pistol, a
  Browning automatic. Clicking the safety off, he urged Miguel, "Let me
  finish him!"
  "No, not here!" The entire operation of seizing the woman and boy had
  gone with incredible speed, occupying barely a minute. To Miguel's
  amazement, no one else appeared to have witnessed what had happened. One
  reason: They had been shielded by the two vehicles; also, fortuitously,
  there had been no passersby. Miguel, Carlos, Rafael and Luis had all come
  armed and there was a Beretta submachine gun in the van for use if they
  had to fight their way out of the parking lot. Now a fighting exit wasn't
  necessary and they would have a head start on any pursuit. But if they
  left the old man behind-his head was bleeding profusely, with blood
  dripping to the ground-an
 98         ARTHUR HAILEY

 immediate alarm would be raised. Making a decision, Miguel ordered, "Help me
 get him in."
  It was accomplished in seconds. Then, as he entered the van himself and
  closed the side door, Miguel saw he had been wrong about no witnesses. An
  elderly woman, white-haired and leaning on a cane, was watching from
  between two cars some twenty yards away. She appeared uncertain and
  puzzled.
  As Luis moved the Nissan van forward, Rafael caught sight of the old woman
  too. In a single swift movement he grabbed the Beretta, raised it, and
  through a rear window was taking aim. Miguel shouted to him, "No!" He
  didn't care about the woman, but the chances looked good that they could
  still get away without raising an alarm. Pushing Rafael aside and making
  his voice cheerful, Miguel called out, "Don't be alarmed. It's just part
  of a film we're making."
  He saw relief and the beginning of a smile on the woman's face. Then they
  left the parking lot and, soon after, Larchmont. Luis was driving
  skillfully, wasting no time. Within five minutes they were on Interstate
  95, the New England Thruway, heading south and moving fast.

                12

 There had been a time when Priscilla Rhea possessed one of the sharpest
 minds in Larchmont. She had been a schoolteacher who pounded into several
 generations of area youngsters the fundamentals of square roots, quadratic
 equations, and how to discover-she always made it sound like the search for
 a holy grail-the algebraic values of x or y. Priscilla also urged them to
 have a sense of civic responsibility and never to shirk their obvious duty.
  But all of that was prior to Priscilla's retirement fifteen years earlier,
  and before the toll of age and illness slowed her body, then her mind.
  Nowadays, white-haired and frail, she
            The Evening News      99

 walked slowly, using a cane, and had recently described her thought
 processes, disgustedly, as "having the speed of a threelegged donkey going
 uphill."
  Nevertheless Priscilla was exercising her thought processes now, moving
  them along as best she could.
  She had watched two people-a woman and a boy-being taken into what looked
  like a small bus, apparently against their will. They were certainly
  struggling and Priscilla thought she'd heard the woman cry out, though
  about that she wasn't sure, her hearing having deteriorated along with
  everything else. Then another person, a man who seemed unconscious and
  hurt, was lifted into the same small bus before it drove away.
  Her natural anxiety at seeing this was immediately relieved by the
  shouted information that it was all part of a film show. That made sense.
  Film and television crews seemed to be everywhere nowadays, photographing
  their stories against real backgrounds and even interviewing people for
  TV news, right on the street.
  But then, the moment the little bus had gone Priscilla looked around for
  the cameras and film crew which should have been recording the action she
  had watched, and for the life of her she couldn't find any. She reasoned
  that if there had been a film crew, it couldn't possibly have disappeared
  that fast.
  The whole thing was a worry Priscilla wished she didn't have, in part
  because she knew that perhaps she was all mixed up in her mind, the way
  she had been some other times. The sensible thing to do, she told
  herself, was go into the Grand Union store, do her bit of shopping and
  mind her own business. Just the same, there was her lifelong credo of not
  shirking responsibility, and perhaps she shouldn't, even now. She only
  wished there were someone handy whom she could ask for advice, and just
  at that moment she saw Erica McLean, one of her old pupils, also on her
  way into the supermarket.
  Erica, now a mother with children of her own, was in a hurry but stopped
  to ask courteously, "How are you, Miss Rhea?" (No one who had ever been
  a pupil of Miss Rhea ever presumed to address her by her first name.)
  "Slightly bewildered, my dear," Priscilla said.
 100        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Why, Miss Rhea?"
  "Something I just saw ... But I'm not sure what I saw. I'd like to know
  what you think." Priscilla then described the scene, which was still
  remarkably clear in her mind.
  "And you're sure there was no film crew?"
  "I couldn't see one. Did you, as you came in?"
  "No." Within herself, silently, Erica McLean sighed. She had not the
  least doubt that dear old Priscilla had been subject to some kind of
  hallucination and it was Erica's bad luck to have come along just then
  and be roped in. Well, she couldn't walk away from the old duck, for whom
  she had a genuine fondness, so she had better forget being in a hurry and
  do what she could to help.
  "Just where did all this happen?" Erica asked.
  "Over there." Priscilla pointed to the still-empty parking slot next to
  Jessica's Volvo station wagon. They walked to it together. "Here!"
  Priscilla said. "It happened right here."
  Eriea looked around her. She had not expected to see anything
  significant, and didn't. Then, about to turn away, her attention was
  caught by a series of small pools of liquid on the ground. Against the
  blacktop surface of the parking lot the liquid seemed dark brown. It was
  probably oil. Or was it? Curiously, Erica leaned down to touch it.
  Seconds later she looked with horror at her fingers. They were covered
  in what was unmistakably blood, still warm.

  It had been a quiet morning in the Larchmont police department, a small
  but efficient local force. In a glass cubicle a uniformed desk officer
  was sipping coffee and glancing through the local Sound View News when
  the call came in-from a pay phone on the comer of Boston Post Road, a
  half block from the supermarket.
  Erica McLean spoke first. After identifying herself she said, "I have a
  lady here, Miss Priscilla Rhea . . ."
  "I know Miss Rhea," the desk officer said.
  "Well, she thinks she may have seen something criminal, perhaps some kind
  of abduction. I'd like you to speak to her."
  "I'll do better than that," the desk officer said. "I'll send an
            The Evening News     101

 officer in a patrol car and you can tell it to him. Where are you ladies?"
  "We'll be outside the Grand Union."
  "Stay there, please. Someone will be with you in a few minutes."
  The desk officer spoke into a radio microphone. "Headquarters to car 423.
  Respond to Grand Union store. Interview Mrs. McLean and Miss Rhea waiting
  outside. Code one."
  The answer came back, "Four twenty-three to headquarters. Ten four."
  Eleven minutes had now passed since the passenger van carrying Jessica,
  Nicholas and Angus had left the supermarket parking lot.

  The young police officer, named Jensen, had listened carefully to
  Priscilla Rhea who was more confident in reporting for the second time
  what she had seen. She even remembered two additional details-the color
  of what she continued to call the "little bus" light tan-and the fact
  that it had dark windows. But no, she had not noticed a license number,
  or even if the license plates were New York's or out-of-state.
  The officer's first reaction, though he kept it to himself, was of
  skepticism. Police forces were used to citizens who became alarmed about
  matters that turned out to be harmless; such incidents happened every
  day, even in a small community like Larchmont. But the officer was
  conscientious and listened attentively to all that was said, making
  careful notes.
  His interest began to mount when Erica McLean, who seemed a responsible,
  rational woman, told him about some splotches on the parking lot that
  looked like blood. The two of them walked over to inspect. By this time
  most of the liquid had dried, though there was enough that was moist to
  reveal it as red to the touch. There was no proof it was human blood, of
  course. But, Officer Jensen reasoned, it gave more credence to the story,
  more urgency too.
  Hurrying back to where they had left Priscilla, they found her talking
  with several other people who were curious about what was going on.
 102         ARTHUR BAILEY

  One man volunteered, "Officer, I was inside and saw four people leave in
  a hurry-two men, a woman and a boy. They were in such a hurry that the
  woman left her shopping cart. It was full, but she just left it."
  "I saw them too," a woman said. "That was Mrs. Sloane, the TV anchorman's
  wife. She often shops here. When she left she looked upset-like something
  bad happened."
  Another woman said. "That's funny. A man came to me and asked if I was Mrs.
  Sloane. He asked others, too."
  Now several people were talking at once. The police officer raised his
  voice. "Did anyone see what this lady"-he motioned to Priscilla-"calls a
  'small bus,' color light tan?"
  "Yes, I saw that," the first man said. "It pulled into the lot as I was
  walking to the store. It was a Nissan passenger van."
  "Did you notice the license plate?"
  "It was a New Jersey plate, but that's all I saw. Oh, one other thing, it
  had dark windows-the kind of glass where you can see out, but can't see
  in."
  "Hold it!" the officer said. He addressed the growing crowd. "Any of you
  who have more information, and those who've given me some already, please
  stay. I'll be right back."
  He jumped into the white police cruiser he had parked alongside the
  supermarket and grabbed the radio mike.
  "Car 423 to headquarters. Possible kidnap at Grand Union parking lot.
  Request help. Description of suspect vehicle: Nissan passenger van, color
  light tan. New Jersey plates, license unknown. Dark windows, believed
  one-way glass. Three persons may have been seized by unknown occupants of
  Nissan van.,,
  The officer's transmission would be heard by all Larchmont police cars as
  well as those in neighboring Mamaroneck Town and Mamaroneck Village. The
  headquarters desk officer, through a "hot line" phone, would automatically
  alert all other police forces in surrounding Westchester County and the New
  York State Police. The New Jersey State Police would not, at this point,
  be informed.
  Already, at the supermarket, two sirens could be heard
            The Evening News     103

 from other approaching police cruisers responding to the request for help.
  Nearly twenty minutes had elapsed since the Nissan passenger van's
  departure.

  Some eight miles away, the Nissan van was about to leave the 1-95 Thruway
  and enter a maze of streets in the Bronx.
  From Larchmont, Luis had made good progress heading south. He had been
  driving at five miles above the legal speed limit, which most motorists
  did-a good speed but not fast enough to attract attention from any
  cruising State Police. Now, Thruway exit 13, an intermediate objective,
  was ahead. Luis eased into a right-hand lane to take the turn. Both Luis
  and Miguel had been looking behind for signs of any pursuit. There was
  none.
  Just the same, as they left the 1-95 Miguel urged Luis, "Move it! Move
  it!" Since the departure from Larchmont, Miguel had been wondering if he
  had made a mistake in not letting Rafael kill the old woman on the
  parking lot. She might not have believed the phony story about what she
  had seen being part of a film. By now she could have spread the alarm.
  Descriptions could be circulating.
  Luis was pushing his speed, going as fast as he could on the roughly
  paved Bronx streets.
  Baudelio, since leaving Larchmont, had several times checked vital signs
  of their two sedated captives, and all appeared to be well. He estimated
  that the drug midazolarn which he had administered would keep the woman
  and boy unconscious for another hour. If it didn't he would give them
  more, though he preferred not, since it might delay the much more complex
  medical task needed at the end of this journey.
  He had also stanched the bleeding of the older man and applied a dressing
  to his head. The old man was now stirring, slight moans escaping him as
  he neared a return to consciousness. Anticipating possible trouble,
  Baudelio prepared another hypodermic of midazolam and injected it. The
  stirring and moans subsided. Baudelio had no idea what would happen to
  the old man. Most likely Miguel would shoot him and dispose
 104        ARTHUR HAILEY

 of the body in a safe place; during his association with the Medellin
 cartel, Baudelio had seen it happen often. Not that he cared one way or
 the other. Caring about other human beings was an emotion he had long
 since discarded.
  Rafael had produced some brown blankets and he and Carlos, with Baudelio
  watching, wrapped the woman, boy and old man in one each, so that only
  their heads protruded. In each case sufficient blanket was left folded
  at the top so it could be turned back to cover the face when the three
  were removed from the Nissan van. Carlos tied each rolled bundle with a
  length of cord around the middle so that in transit it would resemble
  nothing more than a piece of conventional cargo.
  Conner Street in the Bronx, which they had reached, was desolate, gray
  and depressing. Luis knew where he was going; in rehearsals for today
  they had traveled the route twice before. At a corner with a Texaco
  station they turned right into a semideserted industrial area. Trucks
  were parked at intervals, some looking as if they had been there a long
  time. Few people were in sight.
  Luis brought the van to a halt against a long, unbroken wall of an
  unoccupied warehouse. As he did, a truck that had been waiting on the
  opposite side of the street pulled across and stopped slightly ahead of
  the Nissan. The truck was a white GMC with a painted sign, "Superbread,"
  on either side.
  Inquiry would have shown there was no such product as Superbread. The
  truck was one of a total of six vehicles obtained by Miguel soon after
  his arrival, employing a fake rental agency as a front. The GMC truck had
  been used occasionally for the Sloane surveillance duty and otherwise for
  general use. As with other vehicles in the small fleet, the truck had
  been repainted several times, the legend on its sides changed too-all of
  it the handiwork of Rafael. Today the truck was being driven by the
  remaining member of the group, the woman, Socorro, who jumped down from
  the driver's seat and went around to open the double rear doors.
  At the same time the door of the Nissan van was opened and the rolled
  bundles, with all three faces covered, were
            The Evening News     105

 quickly transferred by Rafael and Carlos to the GMC truck. Baudelio, having
 gathered up his medical equipment, followed.
  Miguel and Luis were busy in the Nissan van. Miguel peeled off the dark,
  thin plastic sheets from the windows; they had been useful for concealment
  but were now an identifying feature to be disposed of From beneath the
  driver's seat Luis took a pair of New York State license plates he had put
  there earlier.
  Going outside, and after looking around to make sure he was not observed,
  Luis removed the Nissan van's New Jersey plates, replacing them with the
  New York plates. The process took only a few seconds because all of the
  group's vehicles had special license plate holders, with one side hinged.
  The hinged portion could be lifted upward while the original plate was slid
  out and a fresh one put in. The side of the holder was then snapped back
  and held in place by a spring fastener.
  Miguel, soon after his arrival in New York, had arranged through an
  underworld contact to buy a series of New York and New Jersey plates from
  vehicles no longer in use but on which license fees had been kept up to
  date.
  The licensing systems of New York, New Jersey and most other states made
  it possible to get license plates for any vehicle long after it was totally
  dismantled and all of its parts discarded. All that a state registration
  agency cared about was receiving a license fee along with evidence-equally
  easy to obtain-that the nonexistent vehicle was insured. Neither the state
  agency nor the insurance company, which would renew an old insurance policy
  by mail as long as the required premium was tendered, ever required the
  vehicle to be produced.
  Consequently in criminal circles a brisk business existed in such plates
  which, while illegal, were not on any police "hot list" and were for that
  reason worth many times their actual cost.
  Miguel emerged from the Nissan van with the plastic sheets, which he dumped
  in an overflowing trash container nearby. Luis hurriedly brought the
  discarded New Jersey plates and stuffed those in too.
  Luis then took over the wheel of the GMC truck which now
 106        ARTHUR BAILEY

 contained the unconscious Jessica, Nicholas and Angus, as wen as Miguel,
 Rafael, Baudelio and Socorro. After a swift U-turn they headed back to the
 Thruway and, within less than ten minutes after leaving it, were back on
 the 1-95 in the new vehicle, continuing south.
  Carlos, now driving the empty Nissan passenger van, also made a U-turn.
  He too went to 1-95, but headed north. With the van's appearance changed
  by removal of the dark windows and the substitution of New York for New
  Jersey license plates, it was now like thousands of others in normal use
  and unlike the description circulated by the Larchmont police.

  Carlos's assignment was to dispose of the Nissan passenger van and that,
  too, had been carefully planned. After three miles he left the Thruway,
  then continued north for twelve miles on secondary roads as far as White
  Plains. There he drove to a public parking garage, a four-story structure
  adjoining an indoor shopping complex-Center City Mall.
  Parking on the third level, Carlos moved with apparent casualness through
  his next activities. Among shoppers parking nearby and getting in or out
  of cars, no one seemed remotely interested in him or the Nissan van.
  First, Carlos wiped all obvious surfaces to make fingerprint detection
  difficult. That was in case the van was recovered by law authorities in
  its present condition. The next step was to ensure it wasn't.
  From a locker in the van's interior Carlos withdrew a Styrofoam
  container. Opened, it contained a formidable quantity of plastic
  explosive, a small detonator unit with a release pin, two lengths of
  pliant wire and a roll of adhesive tape. With the tape he fastened the
  explosive and detonator behind the front seats, low down and out of
  sight. He ran wires from the detonator release pin to the inside handles
  of each front door. After fastening a wire to each handle with the door
  almost closed, he shut each door carefully, then locked it. Now, opening
  either door would pull the release pin from the detonator.
  Peering into the van, Carlos satisfied himself that neither the plastic
  explosive nor the wires were visible from outside.
            The Evening News     107

  Miguel had reasoned that several days would pass before the van was
  noticed, by which time the kidnappers and their victims would be far
  away. But when the van was found, a typical terrorist surprise would
  emphasize that those who had been involved with the kidnap were to be
  taken very seriously,
  Carlos left the parking garage through the shopping mall, then used
  public transport to head for Hackensack where he would rejoin the others.

  The GMC truck continued south for five miles, as far as the Cross Bronx
  Expressway where it turned west. About twelve minutes later it crossed
  the Harlem River and, soon after, the George Washington Bridge spanning
  the Hudson River.
  Halfway across the bridge the truck and its occupants left New York State
  and entered New Jersey. Now, for Miguel and the others in the Medellin
  gang, the haven of their Hackensack headquarters was reassuringly close.

                13

 Bert Fisher lived and worked in a tiny apartment in Larchmont. He was
 sixty-eight and had been a widower for a decade. His business cards
 described him as a news reporter, though in the parlance of journalism he
 was more realistically a stringer.
  Like other stringers, Bert was the local representative of several news
  organizations based in larger centers, some of which paid him a small
  retainer. He submitted information or written copy and got paid for what
  was used, if anything. Since small-town local news rarely had national
  or even area-wide significance, getting something published in a major
  newspaper or reported on radio or television was difficult, which was why
  no one ever made a fortune as a stringer and most-like Bert Fisher-barely
  scraped by.
  Still, Bert enjoyed what he was doing. During World War
 108        ARTHUR HAILEY

 II, as an American G. I. in Europe he had worked for the armed forces
 newspaper, Stars and Stripes. It had put journalism in his bloodstream and
 ever since he had happily been a modest part of it. Even now, though age had
 slowed him a little, he still made telephone calls each day to local sources
 and kept several scanner radios switched on, thus hearing communications of
 local police, fire departments, ambulances and other public services. He
 always hoped that something might be worth following up and reporting to a
 major chronicler of news.
  That was how Bert heard the Larchmont police transmission ordering an
  officer in car 423 to go to the Grand Union supermarket. It seemed like a
  routine call until, soon after, the officer alerted police headquarters to
  a possible kidnap. At the word "kidnap," Bert sat up straight, locked the
  radio on the Larchmont police frequency, and reached for copy paper to make
  notes.
  By the time the transmission finished, Bert knew he must hurry to the scene
  of action. First, however, he needed to call New York City television
  station WCBA.

  At WCBA-TV an assistant news director took Bert Fisher's call.
  WCBA, a wholly owned affiliate of the CBA network, was a prestigious local
  station serving the New York area. It operated out of three floors of a
  Manhattan office building a mile or so from its network parent. Although
  a local station, it had an enormous audience; also, because of the amount
  of news which New York generated, WCBA's news organization was in many ways
  a microcosm of the network's.
  In a bustling, noise-filled newsroom where thirty people worked at closely
  clustered desks, the assistant news director checked Bert Fisher's name
  against a list in a loose-leaf binder. "Okay," he said, "what do you have?"
  He listened while the stringer described the police radio message and his
  intention to go to the Larchmont scene.
  "Just a 'possible' kidnap, eh?"
  "Yes, sir. "
  Although Bert Fisher was almost three times as old as the
            The Evening News     109

 young man he was addressing, he still observed a deference to rank,
 carried forward from another age.
  "All right, Fisher, get going! Call back immediately if there's anything
  real."
  "Right, sir. Will do."
  Hanging up, the assistant news director realized the call might be just
  a false alarm. On the other hand, big-breaking news sometimes tiptoed in
  through unlikely doorways. For a moment he considered dispatching a
  camera crew to Larchmont, then decided not. At this point the stringer's
  report was nebulous. Besides, the available crews were already on assign-
  ment, so it would mean pulling one away from an active story. Nor,
  without more information, was there anything which could be broadcast.
  The assistant did, however, walk over to the elevated newsroom desk where
  the station's woman news director presided, and tell her about the call.
  After hearing him out, she confirmed his decision. But afterward a
  thought occurred to her and she picked up a telephone that connected her
  directly to CBA network news. She asked for Ernie LaSalle, the national
  editor with whom she sometimes exchanged information.
  "Look," she said, "this may turn out to be nothing." Repeating what she
  had just heard, she added, "But it is Larchmont and I know Crawford
  Sloane lives there. It's a small place, it might involve someone he
  knows, so I thought you'd want to tell him."
  "Thanks," LaSalle said. "Let me know if there's anything more."

  When he hung up the phone, Ernie LaSalle momentarily weighed the
  potential importance of the information. The likelihood was, it would
  amount to zero. Just the same . . .
  On instinct and impulse he picked up the red reporting phone.
  "National desk. LaSalle. We are advised that at Larchmont, repeat
  Larchmont, New York, the local police radio reports a
 110        ARTHUR HAILEY

 possible kidnapping. No other details. Our friends at WCBA are following up
 and will inform us."
  As always, the national editor's words were carried throughout the CBA News
  headquarters. Some who heard wondered why LaSalle had put something so
  insubstantial on the speaker system. Others, unconcerned, returned their
  attention to whatever else they had been doing. One floor above the
  newsroom, senior producers at the Horseshoe paused to listen. One of them,
  pointing to Crawford Sloane who could be seen through the closed glassed
  doorway to his private office, observed, "If there's a kidnapping let's be
  thankful it's someone else in Larchmont and not Crawf. Unless that's his
  double in there." The others laughed.
  Crawford Sloane heard LaSalle's announcement through a speaker on his desk.
  He had closed the door for a private meeting with the president of CBA
  News, Leslie Chippingham. While Sloane, in asking for the meeting, had
  suggested he go to Chippingham's office, the other man had chosen to come
  here.
  Both paused until the national editor's words concluded and Sloane's
  interest was quickened by the mention of Larchmont. At any other time he
  would have gone to the newsroom to seek more information. But as it was,
  he did not want to stop what had suddenly become a no-holds-barred
  confrontation which, to the anchorman's surprise, was not going at all the
  way he had expected.

               14

 "My instinct tells me, Crawf, you have a problem," the CBA News president
 said, opening their conversation.
  "Your instinct is wrong," Crawford Sloane responded. "It's you who have
  the problem. It's readily solvable, but you need to make some structural
  changes. Quickly."
  Leslie Chippingham sighed. He was a thirty-year veteran of
            The Evening News     III

 TV news who had begun his career at age nineteen as a messenger at NBC's
 Huntley-Brinkley Report, the premier news show of its day. Even then he
 had learned that an anchorman must be handled as delicately as a Ming vase
 and receive the deference accorded heads of state. It was Chippingham's
 success in doing both which, along with other talents, had raised him to
 executive producer, then kept him a senior management survivor while other
 high climbers-including a bevy of network news presidents-were exiled to
 TV's backwaters or the oblivion of early retirement.
  Chippingham had a facility for being at ease with everyone and making
  others feel the same way. It was once said of him that if he fired you,
  he made you feel good about it.
  "So tell me," he asked Sloane. "What changes?"
  "I can't continue to work with Chuck Insen. He has to go. And when we
  choose a new exec producer I want the casting vote."
  "Well, well. You're right about there being a problem." Chippingharn
  chose his words cautiously and added, "Though it's perhaps a different
  one, Crawf, from what you think."
  Crawford Sloane regarded his nominal superior. What he saw was a towering
  figure, even seated-Chippingham was sixfoot-four and weighed a trim 205
  pounds. The face was more rugged than handsome, the eyes bright blue and
  the hair a forest of tight curls, now mostly gray. Across the years a
  succession of women had taken pleasure in running their fingers through
  Chippingham's curls, that particular pleasure invariably preceding
  others. Women, in fact, had been Les Chippingham's lifelong weakness,
  their conquest an irresistible hobby. At this moment, because of those
  indulgences, he was facing marital and financial disaster-a fact unknown
  to Sloane, though he, like others, was aware of Chippingham's womanizing.
  Chippingham, however, knew he must put his own concerns aside to cope
  with Crawford Sloane. It would be like walking a high wire, as any
  colloquy with an anchorman always was.
 112        ARTHUR BAILEY

  "Let's quit futzing around," Sloane said, "and come to the point."
  Chippingham agreed, "I was about to. As we both know, many things in
  network news are changing . . ."
  "Oh for chrissakes, Les, of course they are!" Sloane cut in impatiently.
  "That's why I have problems with Insen. We need to change the shape of our
  news-with fewer quick headlines and more important stories developed
  thoroughly."
  "I'm aware of your feelings. We've been over this before. I also know what
  Chuck believes and, by the way, he came to see me earlier this morning,
  complaining about you."
  Sloane's eyes widened. He had not expected the executive producer to take
  the initiative in their dispute; it was not the way things usually
  happened. "What does he think you can do?" he asked.
  Chippingham. hesitated. "Hell, I suppose there's no point in not telling
  you. He believes the two of you are so far apart that your differences
  aren't reconcilable. Chuck wants you out."
  The anchorman threw back his head and laughed. "And him stay? That's
  ridiculous."
  The news president met his gaze directly. "Is it?"
  "Of course. And you know it."
  "I knew it once; I'm not sure I do now." Ahead of them both was untrodden
  ground. Chippingham eased onto it guardedly.
  "What I'm trying to get through to you, Crawf, is that nothing anymore is
  the way it used to be. Since the networks were bought out, everything's in
  flux. You know as well as I do there's a good deal of feeling among our new
  masters-at this network and the others-about the power of the evening
  anchormen. Those goliaths running the parent companies want to diminish
  that power; also they're unhappy about some of the big salaries for which
  they think they're not getting value. Recently there's been talk about
  private, quiet agreements."
  Sloane said sharply, "What kind of agreements?"
  "The way I hear, the kind big entrepreneurs reach in their exclusive clubs
  and private homes. For example: 'We'll tell our network not to try to hire
  away your network news people, pro-
              The Evening News     113

 vided you agree not to go after ours. That way we won't push salaries up
 all around, and can work on reducing some of the big ones. ' 11
  "That's collusion, restraint of trade. It's goddamned illegal!"
  "Only if you can prove it happened," Chippingham pointed out. "How can
  you, though, if the agreement's made over drinks at the Links Club or the
  Metropolitan, and no record is kept, nothing ever written down?"
  Sloane was silent and Chippingham pressed the message home. "What it
  amounts to, Crawf, is that this is not the best of times to push too
  hard."
  Sloane said abruptly, "You said Insen envisaged someone else in my place.
  Who?"
  "He mentioned Harry Partridge."
  Partridget Once more, Sloane thought, he was looming as a competitor. He
  wondered if Partridge had planted the idea. As if divining the thought,
  Chippingham said, "Apparently Chuck mentioned the idea to Harry, who was
  surprised but didn't think he'd be interested."
  Chippingham added, "Oh, another thing Chuck Insen told me: If it comes
  to a choice between him and you, he isn't going without a fight. He's
  threatened to take it personally to the top."
  "Meaning what?"
  "Meaning he'll talk to Margot Lloyd-Mason."
  Crawford Sloane exploded. "Go to that bitch! He wouldn't dare!"
  "I believe he would. And she may be a bitch, but Margot has the power."
  As Leslie Chippingham well knew.

  CBA had been the last of the major broadcast networks to fall victim to
  what those in the business privately labeled "the invasion of the
  Philistines. " That was the description given to the takeover of the
  networks by industrial conglomerates whose insistence on constantly
  enlarging profits outweighed their sense of privilege and public duty.
  This, in contrast to the past when
 114        ARTHUR BAILEY

 leaders like CBSs Paley, NBCs Sarnoff and ABCs Goldenson, while dedicated
 capitalists, were consistent demonstrators Of theirpublic obligations too.
  Nine months before, afterfailed attempts to keep CBA independent, the
  network had been swallowed by Globanic Industries Inc., a corporate giant
  with worldwide holdings. Like General Electric, which had earlier
  acquired NBC Globanic was a major defense contractor. Also like GE,
  Globanic's record included corporate criminality. On one occasion,
  following grandjury investigations, the company was fined and top-rank
  executives sentenced to prison terms for rigging bids and price-fixing.
  On another the company pleaded guilty to defrauding the US. Government
  byfalsifying defense contract accounting records; a million-dollarfine
  was levied-the maximum under law, though a small amount compared with a
  single contract's total value. As a commentator wrote at the time of
  Globanic's takeover, "Globanic hasjust too many special interestsfor CBA
  not to have lost some editorial independence. Can you envisage CBA ever
  again digging deeply into a sensitive area where its parent is involved?"
  Since the takeover of CBA, there had been public assurances from the
  network's new owners that the traditional independence of CBA News would
  be respected. The viewfrom inside, though, was that such promises were
  proving hollow.
  The transformation of CBA began with the arrival of Margot Lloyd-Mason
  as the network's new president and chief executive officer. Known to be
  efficient, ruthless and exceedingly ambitious, she was already a vice
  president of Globanic Industries. It was rumored that her move to CBA was
  a trial run to see whether she would demonstrate sufficient toughness to
  qualify as eventual chairman of the parent company.
  Leslie Chippingham first encountered his new chieftain when she sentfor
  him a few days after her arrival. Instead of the usual personal phone
  call--a courtesy extended by Mrs. Lloyd-Mason's predecessor to divisional
  presiden is-he received a peremptory message through a secretary to
  appear immediately at "Stonehenge, " the colloquial network namefor CBA's
  Third Av-
              The Evening News     115

 enue headquarters. He went there in a chauffeur-driven limousine.
  Margot Lloyd-Mason was tall, with upswept blond hair, a high-cheekboned,
  lightly tanned face and shrewdly appraising eyes. She wore an elegant
  taupe Chanel suit with a paler-toned silk blouse. Later, Chippingham
  would describe her as "attractive but formidable. "
  The chief executive's manner was both friendly and cool. "You may use
  myfirst name, "she told the news president, while making it sound like
  an order. Then, without wasting time, she got down to business.
  "There will be an announcement sometime today about a problem Theo
  Elliott is having. "
  Theodore Elliott was chairman of Globanic Industries.
  "The announcement's already been made," Chippingharn said. "By the IRS
  in Washington, this morning. They claim our king-of-kings has underpaid
  his personal taxes by somefour million dollars. "
  By chance, Chippingham had seen the story on the AP wire. The
  circumstances were that Elliott had made investments in what was now
  exposed as an illegal tax shelter. The creator of the tax shelter was
  being criminally prosecuted. Elliott was not, but would be required to
  pay back taxes plus large amounts in penalties.
  "Theo has telephoned, " Margot said, "assuring me he had no idea the
  arrangement was illegal. "
  "I suppose there are some who'll believe that, " Chippingham said, aware
  of the army of lawyers, accountants and tax advisers which someone like
  the Globanic chairman would have at his disposal.
  Margot said icily, "Don't beflippant about this. I sentforyou because I
  want nothing about Theo and taxes to appear on our news, and Id like you
  to ask the other networks not to report it either. "
  Chippingham, shocked and scarcely believing what he had just heard,
  struggled to keep his voice calm. "Margot, if I were to call the other
  networks with that request, not only would they turn it down, but they
  would report on the air that CBA News
 116        ARTHUR HAILEY

 had attempted to arrange a cover-up. Andfrankly, if something similar
 happened in reverse, at CBA we'd do the same. "
  Even while speaking, he realized that the new network head had demonstrated
  in a single brief exchange not only her lack of knowledge of the broadcast
  business, but a total insensitivity to news-gathering ethics. But then, he
  reminded himself it was public knowledge that neither of those things had
  brought her here, but instead, herfinancial acumen and an ability to create
  profits.
  "All right, " she said grudgingly, "I suppose I have to accept what you say
  about the other networks. But I want nothing on our own news. "
  Chippingham sighed inwardly, knowing thatfrom now on his job as news
  president was going to be monumentally moredifficult. "Please believe me,
  Margot, when I tell you as a certainty that tonight the other networks will
  use that piece of news about Mr. Elliott and his taxes. And if we don't use
  it also, it will create more attention byjar than if we do. That's because
  everyone will be watching to see how fair and impartial we are, especially
  after the statements by Globanic that the freedom of our News Division will
  not be interfered with. "
  The network president's strong face was set grimly, her lips compressed,
  but her silence showed she understood the point Chippingham had made. At
  length she said, "You'll keep it short?"
  "That will happen automatically. It's not something that's worth a long
  report. "
  "And I don't want some smart-ass reporter implying that Theo knew about the
  illegality when he says he didn't. "
  "The one thing I'llpromise you, " Chippingham said, "is that whatever we
  do will be fair. I'll see to it myself. "
  Margot made no comment and instead picked up a slip of paper on her desk
  "You came here in a chauffeured limo. "
  Chippingham was startled. "Yes, I did. " The car and driver were one of the
  perks of hisjob, but the experience of being spied on-which had obviously
  happened-was new and unsettling.
  "Injuture, use a taxi. Ido. So can you. And something else.
 Shefixed him with a steely glance. "The News Division's budget
            The Evening News     117

 is to be cut by twentypercent immediately. You'll receive a memo from me
 tomorrow and 'immediately' means just that. I shall expect a report within
 a week on how economies have been made. "
  Chippingham was too dazed for more than a polite, formal leave-taking.
  The item about Theodore Elliott and income taxes appeared on the CRA
  National Evening News and the Globanic chairman's statement about his
  innocence was left unchallenged. As a Horseshoe producer observed a week
  later, "If it had been a politician, we'd havepoured skepticism on him,
  then peeled away his skin like an onio& As it is, we haven't even done
  a followUP. -
  In fact, a follow-up was considered; there was sufficient new material.
  But during a discussion at the Horseshoe in which the news president
  participated, it was decided that other news that day was more important,
  so the follow-up didn't run. The decision was subtle; few, even to
  themselves, conceded it to be a copout.
  The matter of budget cutting was something else. It was an area where all
  networks were vulnerable to their conquerors and everyone knew it,
  including Leslie Chippingham. The News Divisions in particular had
  becomefat, overstaffed and ripeforpruning.
  When it happened at CBA News-the result of the demanded cost
  economies-the process was painful, mainly because more than two hundred
  lost theirjobs.
  The firings produced cries of outrage from those left jobless, and their
  friends. The print press had a bonanza, with newspapers running human
  interest stories slanted sympathetically toward the economy wave's
  victims--even though, quitefrequently, print publishers exercised the
  same kind olf economies themselves.
  A group within CBA News, all of whose members were on long-term
  contracts, sent a letter of protest to the New York Times. The
  signatories included Crawford Sloane, four senior correspondents and
  several producers. Their letter lamented that among those abruptly
  unemployed were veteran correspondents
 118        ARTHUR BAILEY

 who had served CBA Newsfor most of their working lives. It also pointed out
 that CBA overall was in no financial difficulty and that the network's
 profits comparedfavorably with those of major industrial companies. The
 published letter was discussed and quoted nationwide.
  The letter and the attention accorded it infuriated Margot Lloyd-Mason.
  Once more she sent for Leslie Chippingham.
  With the Times open in front of her she railed, "Those overpaid, conceited
  bastards are part of management. They should be supporting management
  decisions, not undermining us by public bellyaching. "
  The news president ventured, "I doubt if they consider themselves
  management. They're news people first and are unhappy about their
  colleagues. And I may as well tell you, Margot, so am L"
  The network head impaled him with a glare. "I've enough problems without
  any from you, so forget that brand ofgarbage. See to it that you ream out
  the people who signed that letter and let them know I expect no more
  disloyalty. You may also inform them that their kind of double-dealing will
  be remembered at contract renewal time. "ich reminds me-some of the amounts
  we're paying news people are insanely exorbitant, especially for that
  arrogant son of a bitch Crawford Sloane. "
  Subsequently, Leslie Chippingham relayed a softer version of Margot's
  comments, reasoning that he was the one who had to hold the News Division
  together, something that was becoming increasingly difficult.
  The difficulty was compounded a few weeks later when a new proposal by Mrs.
  Lloyd-Mason was announced through a CBA internal memo. The intention was
  to create a political action fund to pay for lobbying in Washington on
  behalf of CBA network Moneyfor thefund would be contributed "voluntarily"
  by network executives and deductedfrom their salaries. Senior personnel in
  the News Division would be included The announcement pointed out that the
  arrangement conformed to a similar one within the parent company, Globanic
  Industries.
  The same day the announcement arrived, Chippingham was
            The Evening News     119

 near the Horseshoe when a producer asked him, "Les, you're going to fight
 that political action shit for all of us, aren't you?"
  From several feet away, Crawford Sloane interjected, "Of course he is.
  Les would never agree to anything which had the News Division asking for
  political favors instead of reporting them. We can all rely on him for
  that. " -
  The news presidentfound it hard to tell whether or not there was irony
  in the anchorman's voice. Either way, Chippingham recognized he had
  another serious problem, originating through Margot's ignorance--or was
  it plain uncaring?--about news integrity. Should he go to her and argue
  against the political action fund? He doubted, though, that it would make
  any difference since Margot's main objective was clearly to please her
  Globanic masters and advance her own career.
  In the end he solved his problem by leaking the story, along with a copy
  of the internal CBA memo, to the Washington Post. He had a contact there
  whom he had used before and who could be trusted not to reveal a source.
  The resulting Post report, which was picked up by other papers, ridiculed
  the idea of involving a news organization in political lobbying. Within
  days the plan was officially abandoned-according to rumors, on the
  personal orders of Globanic's chairman, Theodore Elliott.
  Once more the CBA network president sent for Chippingham.
  Coldly, without greeting or preliminaries, she asked, "Who in the News
  Division gave my memo to the Post?"
  "I have no idea, " he lied
  "Bullshitl Ifyou don't knowfor sure, you have a damn good notion. "
  Chippingham decided to keep quiet, though noting with relief that it had
  not occurred to Margot he himsetf might be responsible for the leak.
  She broke the silence between them. "You have been uncooperative ever
  since I came here. "
  "I'm sorry you feel that way because I don't believe it's true. In fact,
  I've tried to be honest with you. "
  Ignoring the disclaimer, Margot continued, "Because ofyour persistent
  attitude I've had inquiries made about you and have
 120        ARTHUR HAILEY

 learned several things. One is that yourjob is important to you at this
 moment, because financially you can't afford to lose it. "
  "My job has always been important to me As to financially important,
  isn't that true of most people? Perhaps even of you.
 Chippingham wondered uneasily what was coming.
  With a thin, superior smile the network chief said, "I'm not in the
  middle of a messy divorce action. You are. Your wife wants a large
  financial settlement, including most of your joint property and, if she
  doesn't get it, will produce evidence in court of a hat(-dozen adulterous
  relationships which you were careless about concealing. You also have
  debts, including a big personal bank loan, so you desperately need a
  continuing income; otherwise you'll be a personal bankrupt and the next
  thing to a pauper. Y9
  Raising his voice, he objected, "That's insultingl It's an intrusion on
  my personal privacy."
  Margot said calmly, "It may be, but it's true.
  Despite the protest, he was jolted by the extent of her knowledge. He was
  in a near-desperate financial bind, in part because he had never been
  able to manage his personal money and across the years had not only spent
  his substantial salary as it came in, but had borrowed heavily. He had
  also never been able to resist the temptations of other women, a weakness
  that Stasia, his wife of twenty years, had appeared to accept-until three
  months ago. Then, without warning, Stasia's pent-up rage and stored-up
  evidence exploded into a ferocious divorce action. Even with that to
  contend with, he had foolishly started another affair, this time with
  Rita Abrams, a CBA News producer. He hadn't intended it to happen but it
  had Now hefound it exciting and wanted to go on. But the thought of
  losing his job frightened him
  "Now listen to me carefully, " Margot said. "It isn't hard to replace a
  News Division president and if I need to, I will Before you even know
  what's happening, you'll be out on your ass and someone else in. There
  are plenty of candidatesfor yourjob, here and at the other networks. Is
  that clear?"
  Chippingham said resignedly, "Yes, it's clear.
  "However, if you play ball with me, you'll stay on. But News Division
  policy will be the way I want it. Remember that And
            The Evening News     121

 one more thing: When I want something done which you don't like, don't
 waste my time with crap about news ethics and purity. You stopped being
 pure-if you ever were-when you didn't use those follow-up pieces about
 Theo Elliott's taxes. " Margot gave her thin smile again. "Oh yes, I know
 about that. So you've been corrupted already and a few more times won't
 make any difference. That's all, You can go. "
  That conversation had taken place two days before Chuck Insen, and then
  Crawford Sloane, had come to the news president with their personal
  problems about the National Evening News. Chippingham knew that their
  differences must be settled promptly within the News Division. For as
  long as possible he wanted no more visits to Margot, no more
  confrontations.

  "I'm telling you, Crawf, just as I told Chuck," Chippingham said, "right
  now you'll do the greatest harm to all of us in news if the two of you
  go public with your infighting. Over at Stonehenge, the News Division is
  out of favor. As for Chuck's idea of involving Margot Lloyd-Mason, she
  won't take his side or yours. What she'll probably do is more cost
  cutting on the grounds that if we have time for internal feuding we're
  not busy enough, and are therefore overstaffed."
  "I can fight that," Sloane said.
  "And I guarantee you'll be ignored." Unusually, Chippingham was becoming
  angry. At times it was a news president's function to protect his
  reporting staff, including an anchorman, from the network's top
  management. But there were limits; for once he decided to be rough.
  "Something you may as well know is that our new boss doesn't have a lot
  of time for you. Because of that damnfool letter you and the others wrote
  to the Times, she described you as arrogant and overpaid."
  Sloane protested, "That letter was on target. I'm entitled to a free
  opinion and I expressed it."
  "Balls! You had no business putting your name there. In that I agree with
  Margot. For god's sake, Crawf, grow upl You can't take the kind of money
  you do from the network and
 122        ARTHUR HAILEY

 continue being 'one of the boys,' shooting off at the mouth when you feel
 like it."
  There was no reason, Chippingham thought, why he should take all the flak
  from the network's new owners. Let other senior staffers, including Sloane
  and Insen, carry their sharel The news president also had a private reason
  for irritation. Today was Thursday. Tonight he planned to leave for a long,
  love-filled weekend with Rita Abrams in Minnesota. Rita was already there,
  having arrived the night before. What he didn't want was to have this
  stupid brawl fomenting in his absence.
  "I still come back to what we started with," Sloane said. "There need to
  be changes in our news format."
  "There can be," Chippingham told him. "I have some ideas myself. We'll work
  them out here."
  "How?"
  "Starting next week I'll hold meetings with you and Chuck Insen-as many as
  it takes to get agreement. Even if I have to slam your heads together,
  we'll find an acceptable compromise."
  "We can try it," Sloane said doubtfully, "but it's not totally
  satisfactory."
  Chippingham shrugged. "Tell me something that is."

  When the news president had gone, Sloane sat silently in his office
  brooding over their discussion. Then he remembered the speakerphone
  announcement about Larchmont. Curious to know if there was any more
  information, he left his office and headed for the newsroom.

                15

Bert Fisher, the Larchmont stringer, was continuing to pursue
a potential news story stemming from the police radio message
about a "possible kidnap." After telephoning WCBA-TV, Bert
                                                 The Evening News     123

 hurried out of his apartment, hoping that his battered twentyyear-old
 Volkswagen bug would start. Following an anxious minute of abortive whines
 and grunts, it did. He kept a scanner radio in the car and set it to the
 Larchmont police frequency. Then he headed for downtown-the Grand Union
 supermarket.
  Partway there some more police radio exchanges caused him to change
  direction.
  "Car 423 to headquarters. Proceeding to house of possible victims of
  reported incident. Address, 66 Park Avenue. Request a detective meet me
  there. "
  "Headquarters to 423. Ten four.
  A brief pause, then, "Headquarters to car 426 Proceed urgently to 66 Park
  Avenue. Meet post officer, car 423. Investigate officer's report. "
  In local police usage, Bert realized, "proceed urgently" meant: with
  flashing lights and siren. Clearly, the action was heating up and Bert
  increased his own speed as much as the ancient Volkswagen would allow. Now,
  heading for Park Avenue, he felt excited about that address number-66. He
  wasn't sure, but if the house belonged to the person he thought it did,
  this was really a big story.

  Officer Jensen, who had responded to the original call from the Grand Union
  supermarket and interviewed the old lady, Priscilla Rhea, now had a feeling
  he was involved in something serious. In his mind, he went over the
  situation so far.
  During his questioning of others at the supermarket, several witnesses
  confirmed seeing a fellow shopper-identified by two of them as Mrs.
  Crawford Sloane-leave the store suddenly, apparently in distress. She was
  accompanied by her young son and two other men, one about thirty, the other
  elderly. The thirty-year-old appeared to have come to the store on his own.
  At first he had asked other shoppers whether they were Mrs. Sloane. Then,
  when he encountered the real Mrs. Sloane, the hasty exodus ensued.
  From that point, the only person claiming to have seen any of those
  described was Miss Rhea. Her story about an attack,
 124        ARTHUR HAILEY

 with the victims being carried away in a "little bus," was increasingly
 believable. Contributing to the credibility was that Mrs. Sloane's Volvo
 station wagon-pointed out to Officer Jensen by someone who knew her-was
 still parked in the supermarket lot, with no sign of Mrs. Sloane or the
 others with her. There were also those splotches on the ground which
 possibly were blood. Jensen had asked one of the other officers now on the
 scene to protect them as evidence, for examination later.
  Another onlooker, who lived near the Sloanes, had given Jensen the
  family's home address. This, coupled with the fact that there was nothing
  more for him to do at the supermarket, had prompted Jensen's radio
  message asking for a detective to meet him at 66 Park Avenue. In other
  circumstances, and because Larchmont police radio conversations were
  casual compared with those of larger forces, he would have included the
  Sloane name with the address. But knowing that Larchmont's most famous
  resident was involved, and being aware that outsiders might be listening,
  he withheld the name for the time being.
  Jensen was on his way to Park Avenue now-a journey of only a few minutes.
  He had just entered the driveway of number 66 when a second police
  car-unmarked, though with a portable flashing roof light and screaming
  siren-pulled in behind. Detective Ed York, an old-timer on the force whom
  Jensen knew well, stepped out. York and Jensen conferred briefly, then
  walked to the house together. The policemen identified themselves to
  Florence, the Sloanes' day maid, who bad come to the front door at the
  sound of the siren. She let them in, her face showing a mixture of
  surprise and alarm.
  "There's a possibility, only a possibility," Detective York informed her,
  "that something may have happened to Mrs. Sloane." He began asking
  questions which Florence answered, her concern mounting as she did.
  Yes, she had been in the house when Mrs. Sloane, Nicky, and Mr. Sloane's
  father left to go shopping. That was about eleven o'clock. Mr. Sloane had
  left for work just as Florence arrived, which was 9:30. No, she had not
  heard from anyone in
            The Evening News     125

 the family since Mrs. Sloane left, though she hadn't expected to. In fact
 there had been no phone calls at all. No, there had been nothing unusual
 when Mrs. Sloane and the others drove away. Except . . . well . . .
  Florence stopped, then asked anxiously, "What's this all about? What's
  happened to Mrs. Sloane?"
  "Right now there isn't time to explain," the detective said. "What did you
  mean by 'except . . . well'T'
  "Well, when Mrs. Sloane, her father-in-law and Nicky were leaving, I was
  in there." Florence motioned toward a sun-room at the front of the house.
  "I saw them drive away."
 "And?"
  "There was a car parked on the side street; you can see it from there. When
  Mrs. Sloane left, all of a sudden the car started and went the same way she
  did. I didn't think anything about it at the time."
  "No reason why you should," Jensen said. "Can you describe the car?"
 "It was dark brown, I think. Sort of medium size."
 "Did you see a license plate?"
 "No."

 "Did you recognize the make?"
 Florence shook her head. "They all look the same to me."
  "Leave that for now," Detective York told Jensen. Then to Florence, "Think
  about that car. Try to remember anything else, and we'll come back to you."
  The detective and Jensen returned outside. As they did, two more police
  cruisers arrived. One brought a uniformed sergeant, another the Larchmont
  chief of police. The chief, in uniform, was tall and rangy, with a
  deceptively low-key manner. The four began a hasty conference in the
  driveway.
  Near the end of it the chief asked Detective York, "Do you think this is
  for real-a kidnap?"
 "At this moment," York said, "everything points that way."
 "Jensen?"
 "Yes, sir. It's for real."
  "You said the Nissan van that was seen leaving had New Jersey plates?"
 126        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "According to a witness, yes, sir."
  The chief mused. "If it is a kidnap and they cross a state line, it
  becomes the FBI's jurisdiction. That's the Lindbergh law." He added, "Not
  that that kind of detail worries the FBI."
  The last words came out sourly, reflecting the conviction of many local
  lawmen that the FBI moved in on any high-profile case they wanted and
  found reasons to decline the ones they didn't. Then the chief said
  decisively, "I'm calling in the FBI now."
  He returned to his car and picked up the radio mike.
  A minute or two later, rejoining the others, the chief ordered Detective
  York to go back to the house and stay inside. "The first thing you do,
  have that maid put you in touch with Mr. Sloane and speak to him
  yourself. Tell him as much as you know, and that we're doing all we can.
  After that, answer any incoming phone calls. Keep a note of everything.
  You'll be getting help soon."
  The sergeant and Jensen were instructed to remain on protective duty
  outside. "Soon, there'll be more people here than flies around a
  shithouse. Let no one past the front gate except the FBI. When the press
  get here with their questions, direct them to headquarters."
  At that moment they heard the sound of a noisy approaching car. Their
  heads turned. It was a battered white Volkswagen bug and the chief said
  glumly, "Here's the first."

  Bert Fisher had no need to check which house on Park Avenue was number
  66. The assembled police cars were direction enough.
  As he stopped his VW at the curb and climbed out, the police chief had
  entered his own car and was about to leave. Bert hurried forward. "Chief,
  can you make a statement?"
  "Oh, it's youl" The chief ran down his window on the driver's side; he
  had encountered the old news stringer many times before. "A statement
  about what?"
  "Oh, come on, Chief! I've heard all the radio buzz, including your
  instruction just now to call in the FBI." Bert looked
            The Evening News     127

 around him, realizing that his hunch was right. "This is Crawford Sloane's
 home, isn't it?"
  "Yes, it is."
  "And is it Mrs. Sloane who's been kidnapped?"
  As the chief hesitated, Bert pleaded, "Look, I'm the first here. Why not
  give a local boy a break?"
  The chief who was a reasonable man, thought, Well, why not? He was even
  a little fond of Fisher, a nuisance at times like a persistent mosquito,
  though never vicious the way some press people could be.
  "If you heard all the messages," the chief said, "you'll know we aren't
  certain of anything yet. But yes, we do think Mrs. Sloane may have been
  abducted, along with the Sloanes' son Nicholas and Mr. Sloane's father."
  Bert, scribbling as the chief spoke, knew this was the most important
  story of his life and he wanted to be careful. "So what you're telling
  me is that the Larchmont police are acting on the assumption there have
  been three kidnappings."
  The chief nodded. "That's an okay quote."
  "Do you have any idea who might have done this?"
  "No. Oh, just one thing. Mr. Sloane has not been informed and we're
  trying to get in touch with him. So before you start sounding ofr, for
  god's sake give us time to do that."
  With that, the chief pulled away and Bert dived for his VW. Despite the
  chief's caveat, he had no intention of waiting for anything. The only
  question in his mind was: Where was the nearest pay phone?
  Moments latey, as Bert turned out of Park Avenue, he saw another car
  turning in and recognized the occupant-the local stringer for WNBC-TV.
  So the competition was onto the story. Now, if Bert was to stay ahead he
  had to move fast.
  Not far away, on Boston Post Road, he found a pay phone. As he punched
  out the numbers of WCBA-TV, his hand was trembling.
 128        ARTHUR HAILEY

                16

 At 11:20 A.M. in the pressure-driven newsroom of WCBA-TV, tension was rising
 as it always did during the hour preceding the local New York station's News
 at Noon. Today especially, there was a heavy budget of news with several
 developing stories competing for the lead position.
  A famous evangelist, in New York to receive a religious prize, had been
  found dead in his Waldorf suite, apparently from a cocaine overdose, and
  a prostitute who had spent the night with him was being questioned by
  police. In midtown Manhattan an office building was on fire; people trapped
  on high floors were being rescued by helicopter. A Wall Street billionaire,
  terminally ill with cancer, was being wheeled around the Bronx in an
  invalid chair as he handed out fistfuls of one-hundred-dollar bills. Every
  few minutes, from a trailing armored car, his supply was replenished.
  Amid a scene of near-bedlam, Bert Fisher's phone call was routed to the
  same assistant news director as before who, on hearing who was calling,
  snapped, "We're swamped here. Make it short and quick!"
  Bert did, at which the young newsman said incredulously, "You're sure?
  Absolutely sure? Do you have confirmation?"
  "From the chief of police." Bert added proudly, "He gave me an exclusive
  statement and, to be safe, I had him repeat it."
  The assistant news director was already on his feet, signaling to the news
  director, shouting urgently, "Line four! Line four!" He told an assignment
  editor at a desk beside him, "We need a camera crew in Larchmont fast.
  Don't ask me how to find one, just pull them off something else, anything
  else, and get them there."
  The woman news director was already listening to Bert
            The Evening News     129

 Fisher. When she had made notes of the essentials, she asked him, "Who
 else has the story?"
  "I was the first. Still am. But WNBC's man was arriving as I left."
  "Did he have a camera crew?"
  "No.,,
  The assistant news director crossed the newsroom to report, "I've a crew
  on the way, We pulled them from the Bronx."
  The news director spoke into the phone, instructing Bert Fisher, "Stay
  on the line." Then to a writer at a desk nearby: "Take line four. It's
  Fisher, Larchmont. Get everything he has, then write it as our noon
  lead."
  At the same time the news director picked up a telephone connecting her
  directly to the network. Ernie LaSalle, CBA's national editor, answered
  and she told him, "The kidnap in Larchmont is confirmed. Half an hour ago
  unknown persons violently seized Crawford Sloane's wife, his son, and
  Crawford's father."
  "Good Christl" LaSalle's shock and incredulity came down the line. "Has
  Crawf been told?"
  "I don't think so."
  "Are the police involved?"
  "Very much so, and they've called in the FBI. Our man Fisher has a
  statement from the Larchmont chief." Checking her notes, the news
  director read aloud the chief's statement, Bert Fisher's query, and the
  chief's words, "That's an okay quote."
  "Run that past me again." LaSalle was frantically typing as he spoke.
  The WCBA news director did so, adding, "We've heard that WNBC is onto the
  story, though a tad behind us. Look, we'll go with this at noon anyway,
  and I'm considering breaking into programming now. But I thought, since
  this is family . . ."
  Before she could finish, LaSalle snapped, "Don't do a damn thing over
  there. The brass will be in on this. And if anybody breaks it, we will."
 130        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Taking seconds only, Ernie LaSalle debated his options.
  He had several.
  One was to take whatever time was necessary to first contact Crawford
  Sloane, who might or might not be in the building, then personally and
  gently as possible convey to Crawf the frightening information. A second
  was to pick up the red reporting phone in front of him and announce to
  the entire News Division the kidnapping of the Sloane family, after which
  urgent action to make an on-air report would undoubtedly begin. The third
  was to issue an order to network master control that CBA News would "take
  air" in approximately three minutes, interrupting network programming
  with a special bulletin. LaSalle was one of a half-dozen people who had
  the power to authorize such intrusion and, in his judgment, the news just
  received was not only preeminent, but of immense public interest.
  He made his decision, opting for the second choice. Influencing his
  judgment was the knowledge that another New York station, WNBC-TV---owned
  by NBC network-was on the Larchmont scene. Undoubtedly NBC News would
  receive a report swiftly from their affiliate, just as CBA had. Therefore
  there wasn't time for humane niceties. As for going on the air at once,
  there were plenty of other people around, including the News Division
  president, Les Chippingham, to make that decision.
  I'm sorry as hell to do this to you, Crawf LaSalle thought, then picked
  up the red reporting phone.
  "National desk. LaSalle. The earlier reported kidnapping at Larchmont,
  New York, has been confirmed by the local chief of police who has called
  in the FBI. According to police, the reported victims are Mrs. Crawford
  Sloane, young Nicholas Sloane and . . ." Despite his resolve and
  professionalism, LaSalle found his voice breaking. Steeling himself he
  continued. ". . . and Crawford's father, who were violently seized and
  driven away by unknown persons. WCBA has reliable on-scene coverage,
  details available here. NBC is believed to be working on this story,
  though we have a slight lead. National desk recommends taking network air
  immediately."
            The Evening News     131

  Horror and consternation swept through the News Division like a tidal
  wave. Everyone stopped working. Many looked at each other, asking
  silently, Did I really hear that? When confirmation was forthcoming,
  unanswerable questions sprang to lips: How could it happen? Who would do
  such a thing? Is it a kidnap for ransom? "at do the kidnappers want? What
  are the chances the police will catch them quickly? Oh god, how must Cra
  wfo rd feel?
  One floor above the newsroom, senior staffers at the Horseshoe were
  equally appalled, though their shock lasted only moments. After it, out
  of habit and discipline, they were galvanized to action.
  Chuck Insen, as senior producer in the building, left his office on the
  run. All his newsman's instincts told him that the national desk advice
  to take network air immediately would be followed. When that happened,
  Insen's appointed place was in the broadcast control room four floors
  below. Reaching a bank of elevators, he jabbed a down button with his
  thumb.
  Impatiently awaiting for an elevator, Insen's mind overflowed with
  sympathy for Sloane, their differences for the moment totally erased. He
  wondered: Where was Crawf? Earlier, Insen had seen him briefly in the
  distance and knew that he and Les Chippingharn had had their heads
  together in Sloane's office for reasons Insen already knew. Presumably
  Crawf was somewhere in the building and must have heard the hot-line
  call. Which raised a crucial question.
  When urgent breaking news was deemed significant enough to interrupt the
  network with a special report, it was the evening news anchorman-in CBA's
  case, Crawford Sloane-who faced the cameras. If the anchorman wasn't on
  the scene he would be sent for, with any available correspondent fillin~
  in until the anchor arrived. But, Insen realized, there was absolutely
  no way Sloane could be expected to handle this sudden, harrowing news
  about his own family.
  At that moment a "down" elevator arrived and the business correspondent
  of CBA News, Don Kettering, prepared to step out. Kettering, middle-aged
  with a thin mustache and looking
 132        ARTHUR BAILEY

 like a well-to-do businessman himself, opened his mouth to say something
 but never got started. This was because Insen shoved him back inside the
 elevator and hit the B I button for first basement. The elevator doors
 closed.
  Kettering spluttered, "What the-"
  "Hold it," Insen said. "You heard the speakerphone just now?"
  "Yes, I'm damn sorry. I was going to tell Crawf-"
  "Where you're going," Insen said, "is on the air. Get to the flash studio
  and take the hot seat. Crawf can't do this. You're available. I'll talk
  to you from the control room."
  Kettering, a quick thinker and an experienced general reporter before he
  became a business specialist, nodded. He even seemed a little pleased at
  the prospect. "Do I get some briefing?"
  "We'll give you all we have so far. You'll get maybe a minute to do a
  quick study, then ad-lib. More will be fed to you as it comes in."
  "Right."
  As Insen left the elevator, Kettering pressed a button which would take
  him upward to the broadcast floor.
  Elsewhere, other activity was in high gear, some proceeding
  automatically.
  In the newsroom, the Northeast assignment editor was rounding up two
  network camera crews and correspondents. Their instructions were to
  proceed posthaste to Larchmont and obtain pictures of the kidnap scene
  as well as interview police and any witnesses. A mobile transmitting van
  would follow right behind.
  In a small research department adjoining the Horseshoe, an offshoot of
  a larger research library in another building, a halfdozen people were
  hastily assembling a computer biography of Crawford Sloane and the few
  known facts about his familyfew because Jessica Sloane had always
  insisted on privacy for herself and Nicholas.
  From somewhere, though, main research had acquired a photograph of
  Jessica which was coming through on a fax machine; a graphics editor
  hovered over the machine, waiting to
            The Evening News     133

 remove the picture and convert it to a slide. Printing out from another
 computer was the war record of Crawford's father, Angus Sloane. There
 would be a photo of him too. No picture of Nicky had been located so far.
  A research assistant grabbed all the material available and ran down a
  flight of stairs to the flash facility studio where Don Kettering had
  just arrived. Right behind research, a messenger from the national desk
  brought a printout of Bert Fisher's Larchmont report, received from
  WCBA-TV. Kettering sat down at the studio's central desk and, blocking
  out all else, immersed himself in reading. Around him technicians were
  arriving, lights coming on. Someone clipped a microphone onto Kettering's
  jacket. A cameraman framed Kettering in his lens.
  The flash facility was the smallest studio in the building, no bigger
  than a modest living room. It had a single camera and was kept for
  occasions such as this when it could be activated and ready in rnoments.
  Meanwhile, in the darkened control room where Chuck Insen had now
  established himself, a woman director slid into her central seat facing
  a bank of TV monitors, some illumined, others black. On her right, an
  assistant with an open notebook joined her. Operators and technicians
  were taking their places, a stream of orders flowing.
  "Standby camera one. Mike check."
  "Bill, this will be a live announce. 'We interrupt this programming' open
  and a 'resume programming' close. Okay?"
  "Okay. Got it."
  "Do we have a script yet?"
  "Negative. Don may go ad-lib."
  "Bring the video up ten units."
  "Camera one, let's see Kettering."
  More monitors were coming alight, among thern one from the flash
  facility. The face of Don Kettering filled the screen.
  The director's assistant was talking with network master control. "This
  is news. We're expecting to break into the network with a bulletin.
  Please stand by."
  The director inquired, "Is the special slide ready?"
 134        ARTHUR HAILEY

  A voice responded, "Here it is."
  On another monitor, bright red letters filled the screen:

CBA NEWS
SPECIAL
BULLETIN

  "Hold it there." The director turned in her chair to speak to Insen.
  "Chuck, we're ready as we'll ever be. Do we go or not?"
  The executive producer, a telephone cradled in his shoulder, told her,
  "I'm finding out now."
  He was talking to the News Division president who was in the main
  newsroom where Crawford Sloane was pleading for delay.
  The time was 11:52 A.M.

  When the shattering national desk announcement began, Crawford Sloane was
  at the head of a stairway on the fourth floor, about to descend to the
  newsroom. His intention had been to find out more, if he could, about the
  earlier report from Larchmont.
  As the speakerphones went live, he stopped to listen, then, scarcely
  believing what he had heard, stood briefly, dazed and in a state of
  shock. His momentary trance was interrupted by one of the Horseshoe
  secretaries who had seen him leave and now came running after him,
  calling out breathlessly, "Oh, Mr. Sloane! The Larchmont police are on
  your line. They want to talk to you urgently."
  He followed the girl back and took the call in his office.
  "Mr. Sloane, this is Detective York. I'm at your home and have some
  unfortunate-2'
  "I just heard. Tell me what you know."
  "Actually, sir, it's very little. We know that your wife, son and father
  left for the Grand Union supermarket about fifty minutes ago. Inside the
  store, according to witnesses, they were approached . . ."
  The detective continued his recital of known facts, inelud-            The Evening News     135

 ing the trio's apparently forced departure in a Nissan van. He added,
 "We've just heard that FBI special agents are on the way here, and someone
 from FBI is coming over to you. I've been asked to tell you there's
 concern about your own safety. You'll receive protection, but for the time
 being you should not leave the building you are in."
  Sloane's mind was whirling. Consumed with anxiety, he asked, "Is there
  any idea who might have done this?"
  "No, sir. It all happened suddenly. We're absolutely in the dark."
  "Do many people know about this-what's happened?"
  "As far as I know, not many." The detective added, "The longer we can
  keep it that way, the better."
  "Why?"
  "With a kidnapping, Mr. Sloane, publicity can be harmful. We may be
  hearing from the kidnappers-they'll probably try to contact you first.
  Then we, or more likely the FBI, will want a dialog with them, a start
  to negotiating. We won't want the whole world in on that. Nor will they
  because . . 29
  Sloane interrupted. "Detective, I'll talk to you later. Right now there
  are things I have to do."
  Aware of activity around the Horseshoe and knowing what it meant, Sloane
  wanted to curb precipitate action. Hurrying from his office he called
  out, "Where's Les Chippingham?"
  "In the newsroom," a senior producer said. Then, more gently, "Crawf,
  we're all damn sorry, but it looks as if we're going on the air."
  Sloane scarcely heard. He raced for the stairs and descended them
  swiftly. Ahead he could see the news president in hasty conference with
  several others around the national desk. Chippingham was asking, "How
  sure are we of that Larchmont stringer?"
  Ernie LaSalle answered, "WCBA say he's a little old guy they've had for
  years-foursquare, reliable."
  "Then I guess we should go with what we have."
  Sloane broke into the circle. "No, no, nol Les, don't go with it. We need
  more time. The police just told me they may hear from the kidnappers.
  Publicity could harm my family."
 136        ARTHUR HAILEY

  LaSalle said, "Crawf, we know what you're going through. But this is a
  big story and others have it. They won't hold off. WNBC-"
  Sloane shook his head. "I still say no!" He faced the news president
  directly. "Les, I beg of you-delay!"
  There was an embarrassed silence. Everyone knew that in other
  circumstances, Sloane would be the first to urge going ahead. But no one
  had the heart to say, Crawf you're not thinking coherently.
  Chippingham glanced at the newsroom clock: 11:54.
  LaSalle had taken over the phone call from Insen. Now he reported, "Chuck
  says everyone's set to go. He wants to know: Are we breaking into the
  network or not?"
  Chippingham said, "Tell him I'm still deciding." He was debating: Should
  they wait until noon? On monitors overhead he could see the national
  feeds of all networks. On CBA a popular soap opera was still in progress;
  when it concluded, commercials would follow. Cutting in now would be a
  costly disruption. Would less than another six minutes make much
  difference?
  At that moment, simultaneously, several newsroom computers emitted a
  "beep." On screens a bright "B" appearedthe signal for an urgent press
  wire bulletin. Someone reading a screen called out, "AP has the Sloane
  kidnap story."
  On the national desk another phone rang. LaSalle answered, listened, then
  said quietly, "Thank you for telling us." Hanging up, he informed the
  news president, "That was NBC. They called us as a courtesy to say they
  have the story. They're going with it on the hour."
  The time was fifteen seconds short of 11:55.
  Making a decision, Chippingham said, "We go now!" Then to LaSalle, "Tell
  Chuck to break the network."
            The Evening News     137

                17

 In the CBA News headquarters building, two floors below street level in
 a small, plain room, two male operators sat facing complex switching
 systems with a galaxy of colored lights and dials, computer terminals and
 television monitors. Two sides of the room had glass surrounds looking out
 onto drab corridors. Passersby, if so inclined, could look in. This was
 network master control, technical command post for the entire CBA national
 network.
  Through here all network programming flowed---entertainment, news,
  sports, documentaries, presidents' addresses, Capitol Hill follies,
  assorted live coverage and prerecordings, and national commercials.
  Surprisingly, for all its importance as an electronic pulse center,
  master control's location and appearance were uninspiring.
  At master control, each day usually advanced routinely according to a
  meticulous plan which codified each twenty-four hours of broadcasting in
  terms of minutes, sometimes seconds. Principally, execution of the plan
  was by computer, with the two operators overseeing-and occasionally
  interceding when unexpected events required regular programming to be
  interrupted.
  An interruption was occurring now.
  Moments earlier on a direct line from the News Division control room,
  Chuck Insen had instructed, "We have a news special. It's for the full
  network. Were taking air-nowl"
  As Insen spoke, the slide "CBA News Special Bulletin," fed from the news
  control room, came up on a master control monitor.
  The experienced master control operator who received the call knew the
  command "now" meant exactly that. In the absence of that word, if a
  program in progress were within a
 138        ARTHUR HAILEY

 minute and a half of finishing, he would wait until its conclusion before
 breaking into the network feed. Similarly, if a commercial were airing,
 he would allow it to finish.
  But "now" meant no delay, no holding. A one-minute commercial was being
  broadcast and had thirty seconds to go. But moving a switch, the operator
  cut it, thereby costing CBA in lost revenue some $25,000. With another
  switch he put the "Special Bulletin" slide on the network video feed.
  Instantly the bright red words appeared on the screens of more than
  twelve million television sets.
  For five seconds, as he watched a digital clock in front of him, the
  master control operator kept the audio feed silent. This was to allow
  control rooms of affiliate stations which had not been broadcasting the
  network program to interrupt their local programming and take the special
  bulletin. Most did.
  At the end of five seconds the audio feed was opened and an announcer's
  voice heard.
  "We interrupt our regular programming to bring you a special report from
  CBA News. Now, from New York, here is correspondent Don Kettering."
  In the news control room, the director ordered, "Cue Don!"
  Across the nation, the face of CBA's business correspondent filled
  television screens.
  His voice and expression serious, Kettering began, "Police in Larchmont,
  New York, have reported the apparent kidnapping of the wife, young son
  and father of CBA News anchorman Crawford Sloane."
  A slide of Sloane's familiar face appeared as Kettering continued, "The
  kidnapping, by unidentified persons, occurred about forty minutes ago.
  According to police and a witness at the scene, it was preceded by a
  violent assault
  The time was 11:56 A.M.
  Beating out its competitors, CBA News had broken the story first.
 P A R T
 TWO
 The aftereffects of CDA's special bulletin announcing the Sloane family
 kidnap were instantaneous and widespread.
  NBC News, whose decent, courteous gesture of informing CBA had robbed it
  of a possible lead, followed with its own bulletin barely a minute
  later-ahead of its original plan to break the story at noon.
  CBS, ABC and CNN, alerted by wire reports from AP and Reuters, were all
  on the air with the news within minutes. So were TV stations across the
  country not connected to a network, but with their own news services.
  Canadian television also made the Sloane kidnapping the lead item on noon
  news broadcasts.
  Radio stations, with their lightning immediacy, were even faster than
  television in spreading the story.
  From coast to coast, afternoon newspapers at once began replating front
  pages with banner headlines. Major out-of-state papers instructed their
  New York correspondents to work on individual by-line stories.
  News photo agencies began a frantic search for pictures of Jessica,
  Nicholas and Angus Sloane. There was no shortage of Crawford Sloane
  photos.
  The main switchboard of CBA was flooded with calls for Crawford Sloane.
  When the callers were told politely that Mr. Sloane was not available,
  most left sympathetic messages.
  The press and other media reporters, knowing better than to call a
  switchboard, used direct lines into CBA News. As a
 142        ARTHUR HAILEY

 result, some telephones were constantly blocked, making outside
 communication difficult. Journalists who got through, wanting to interview
 Sloane, were advised that he was too distressed to talk with anyone and
 that, in any case, there was no more information than had already been
 broadcast.
  One caller who did reach Sloane was the President of the United States.
  "Crawf, I've just been told this awful news," the President said. "I know
  you have too much on your mind to talk right now, but I wanted you to
  know that Barbara and I are thinking about you and your family, and
  hoping for good news very soon. Like you, we want this ordeal to be
  over."
  "Thank you, Mr. President," Sloane said. "That means a lot."
  "I've given orders to the Justice Department," the President said, "that
  the FBI's search for your family is to have priority, and any other
  resources of government that are needed will be used."
  Sloane repeated his thanks.
  The substance of the President's call was immediately made public by a
  White House spokesman, adding to the growing flow of information which
  clearly would dominate the evening news broadcasts of all networks.
  TV camera crews from New York stations and the networks reached Larchmont
  shortly after the initial bulletins, and interviewed-as an observer put
  it-"almost every breathing body in sight," including some with only a
  tenuous connection to the case. The ex-schoolteacher, Priscilla Rhea,
  blossoming under all the attention, proved to be the favorite
  interviewee, with the Larchmont police chief a close second.
  A startling new development emerged when several people living near the
  Sloanes came forward with information that the Sloane house had
  apparently been under observation for several weeks, perhaps a month. A
  succession of different cars, and several times a truck, had been seen
  to arrive. They remained parked near the house for long periods, with
  whoever came in the vehicles remaining inconspicuously inside. Some makes
  of cars were mentioned, though detailed information was sketchy.
            The Evening News     143

 There was agreement among the observers that sometimes the cars had New
 York license plates, at other times New Jersey's. No one, though,
 remembered numbers.
  One of the cars described by a neighbor matched the description of that
  seen by the Sloanes' maid, Florence-the same car that followed Jessica
  Sloane's Volvo when Jessica, Nicky and Angus left to do the household
  shopping.
  Press and TV interviewers asked the obvious question: Why had no one
  reported the apparent surveillance to the police?
  In each case the answer was the same. It was assumed that some kind of
  security protection was being provided for the famous Mr. Crawford
  Sloane, and why would neighbors interfere with that?
  Now, belatedly, information about the various vehicles was being sought
  by police.
  Overseas media, too, were showing keen interest in the kidnap story.
  While the face and voice of Crawford Sloane were not as familiar to
  foreigners as to North Americans, the involvement of a major TV
  personality seemed of international consequence in itself.
  This overwhelming reaction was proof that the modem network
  anchorman-species Homo promulgare ancora, as the next day's Wall Street
  Journal would dub it-had become a special breed, ranking in public
  idolization with kings and queens, movie and rock stars, popes,
  presidents and princes.

  Crawford Sloane's mind was a turmoil of emotions.
  He moved through the next several hours partly in a daze, half-expecting
  to learn at any moment that the entire episode was a misunderstanding,
  a readily explained mistake. But as time went by, with Jessica's Volvo
  still standing unclaimed in the Larchmont supermarket parking lot, this
  seemed increasingly less likely.
  What troubled Sloane greatly was the memory of his conversation the
  preceding evening with Jessica. It was he who had brought up the
  possibility of kidnap, and it was not the coincidence which exercised
  him-he knew from long experience that real life and real news were full
  of coincidences, sometimes
 144        ARTHUR HAILEY

 incredible ones. But, as he saw it at this moment, his own selfishness and
 self-importance made him assume that only he could be a kidnap victim.
 Jessica had even asked, ""at about families? Could they be targets too?"
 But he had dismissed the idea, not believing it could happen or that
 Jessica and Nicky should be protected. Now, blaming himself for
 indifference and neglect, his sense of guilt was overwhelming.
  He was greatly concerned, of course, about his father, though clearly
  Angus's inclusion in today's events was accidental. He had arrived
  unexpectedly and, unhappily, had been caught in the kidnappers' net.
  At other moments during the day Sloane fretted impatiently, wanting to
  take some action, any action, yet knowing there was little he could do.
  He considered going to Larchmont, then realized he would gain nothing and
  would be out of touch if any fresh news broke. Another reason for staying
  put was the arrival of three FBI field agents who began a flurry of
  activity centering around Sloane.
  Special Agent Otis Havelock, who was senior in the trio, at once
  demonstrated himself to be, in the words of an observing Horseshoe
  producer, "a take-charge guy." He insisted on being conducted directly
  to Crawford Sloane's office and there, after introducing himself to
  Sloane, demanded from his escort the presence of the head of the
  network's security force. Next, the FBI agent used a telephone to summon
  help from the New York City Police Department.
  Havelock-small, dapper and balding-had deep-set green eyes and a direct
  gaze which seldom shifted from the person with whom he was conversing.
  His permanently suspicious expression appeared to say, I've seen and
  heard it all before. Later, Sloane and others would learn that the
  unspoken assertion was the truth. A twenty-year FBI veteran, Otis
  Havelock had spent the greater part of his life dealing with the worst
  of human infamies.
  CBA's security chief, a grizzled retired New York police detective,
  arrived speedily. Havelock told him, "I want this entire floor secured
  immediately. The people who've taken Mr. Sloane's family may make an
  attempt on Mr. Sloane himself
            The Evening News     145

 Station two of your security guards at the elevators and post other guards
 at any stairways. They're to check, carefully check, the identity of all
 persons entering or leaving the floor. As soon as that's done, begin a
 thorough check of everyone who is on this floor already. Is that clear?"
  The older man protested, "Sure it's clear, and we're all concerned for
  Mr. Sloane. But I don't have unlimited people and what you're asking is
  excessive. I have other security responsibilities I can't neglect."
  "You've neglected them already," Havelock snapped. He produced a plastic
  identity card. "Look at this! I used it to get in this building. Just
  showed it to the guard downstairs and he waved me past."
  The security head peered at the card on which was a photo of a man in
  uniform. "Whose picture is that?"
  "Ask Mr. Sloane." Havelock handed Crawford Sloane the card.
  As Sloane glanced at it, despite his anxieties he burst out laughing.
  "It's Colonel Qaddafi."
  "I had it specially made," the FBI man said. "I use it sometimes to prove
  to companies like this how lousy their security is." He told the
  crestfallen security chief, "Now get on with what I said. Secure this
  floor and tell your people to look at ID cards carefully, including
  pictures."
  When the other man had gone, Havelock told Sloane, "The reason security's
  bad in most big companies is because security's not a revenue-producing
  department; therefore budget people cut it to the bone. If you'd had
  proper security here, it would have included protection for you and your
  family at home."
  Sloane said ruefully, "I wish you'd been around to suggest it.-
  A few minutes earlier, when Havelock phoned the New York Police
  Department, he had spoken with the chief of detectives, explaining that
  a kidnapping had taken place and asking for police protection of Crawford
  Sloane. Now, from outside, the sound of several rapidly approaching
  sirens grew louder,
 146        ARTHUR HAILEY

 then stopped. Minutes later a uniformed police lieutenant and a sergeant
 marched in.
  "What I'd like you to do," Havelock told the lieutenant after
  introductions, "is keep a couple of radio cars outside to advertise
  police presence, also post an officer at every outside entrance, with one
  inside the main lobby. Tell your men to stop and question anyone
  suspicious."
  The police lieutenant said, "Will do." To Crawford Sloane, he added
  almost reverently, "We'll take good care of you, sir. Whenever I'm home,
  my wife and I always watch you on the news. We like the way you do it."
  Sloane nodded. "Thank you."
  The policemen, looking around them, seemed inclined to linger, but
  Havelock had other ideas. "You can do a perimeter check by sending
  someone up to the roof. Take a look at the building from above. Make sure
  all exits are covered."
  With assurances that everything possible would be done, the lieutenant
  and the sergeant left.
  "You'll be seeing a lot of me, I'm afraid, Mr. Sloane," the special agent
  said when they were alone. "I've been ordered to stay close to you. You
  heard me say that we think you could be a kidnap target too."
  "I've sometimes thought I might be," Sloane said. Then, expressing the
  guilt that had been building in him, "It never occurred to me that my
  family could be in danger."
  "That's because you were thinking rationally. But clever criminals are
  unpredictable."
  Sloane asked nervously, "You think that's the kind of people we may be
  dealing with?"
  The FBI man's expression did not change; he seldom wasted time with words
  of comfort. "We don't know yet what kind they are. But I've found it
  useful never to underestimate the enemy. Then if it turns out later that
  I overrated him, that's to my advantage."
  Havelock continued, "Some more of our people will be moving in soon, here
  and at your home, with electronic gadgetry. We'll want to monitor your
  incoming phone calls, so while in this building you should take all calls
  on your regular
            The Evening News     147

 line." He motioned to Sloane's desk. "If there's a call from the
 kidnappers, do the obvious thing-keep talking as long as possible, though
 nowadays calls can be traced much faster than they used to be, and
 criminals know that too."
  "You realize our phones at home have unlisted numbers?"
  "Yes, but I'm assuming the kidnappers have those numbers. Quite a few
  people are bound to know them." Havelock produced a notebook. "Now, Mr.
  Sloane, I need answers to some questions."
  "Go ahead."
  "Have you, or members of your family, received any threats that you
  remember? Think carefully, please."
  "I'm not aware of any."
  "Is there anything you might have reported on the news which could have
  caused special antagonism on the part of someone, or some group?"
  Sloane threw up his hands. "Once a day, at least."
  The FBI man nodded. "I guessed that, so two of my colleagues will view
  tapes of your broadcasts, working backward through the past two years,
  to see if ideas suggest themselves. How about antagonistic mail? You must
  get some."
  "I never see it. People in network news are shielded from the mail. It's
  a management decision."
  Havelock's eyebrows went up as Sloane continued, "Everything we broadcast
  generates a phenomenal amount of mail. Reading all those letters would
  take too much time. Then we'd probably want to respond, which would take
  more time still. Something else management believes is that we're better
  able to keep our sense of perspective and fairness if protected from
  individual reactions to the news." Sloane shrugged. "Some may disagree,
  but that's the way it is."
  "So what happens to the mail?"
  "It's handled by a department called Audience Services. All letters are
  answered and anything judged important is sent to the News Division
  president."
  "I presume all incoming mail is kept."
  "I believe so,"
 148        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Havelock made a note. "We'll assign people to go through that too."
  During a pause, Chuck Insen knocked on the office door and came in.
  "If I can interrupt As the other two nodded, the executive producer said,
  "Crawf, you know we all want to do the best we can-for you, for Jessica,
  Nicky
  Sloane acknowledged, "Yes, I know."
  "We feel you shouldn't do the news tonight. For one thing, it will be
  heavily about you. For another, even if you anchored the remainder, it
  would look too much like business as usual, almost as if the network
  wasn't caring, which of course isn't true."
  Sloane considered, then said thoughtfully, "I suppose you're right."
  "What we're wondering is if you'd feel up to being interviewed-live."
  "Do you think I should?"
  "Now that the story's out," Insen said, "I think the wider attention it
  gets, the better. There's always a chance that someone watching might
  come through with information."
  "Then I'll do it."
  Insen nodded, then continued, "You know the other networks and the press
  want to interview you. How do you feel about a press conference this
  afternoon?"
  Sloane made a gesture of helplessness, then conceded, "All right, yes."
  Insen asked, "When you're through here, Crawf, can you join Les and me
  in my office? We'd like your views about some other plans."
  Havelock intedected, "As much as possible, I'd like Mr. Sloane to stay
  in his office and be close to this telephone."
  "I'll be close to it anyway," Sloane assured him.

  Leslie Chippingharn had already telephoned Rita Abrams in Minnesota with
  the unhappy news that their planned lovers' weekend would have to be
  abandoned. There was no way, he
            The Evening News     149

 explained, that in the midst of this breaking story he could leave New
 York.
  Rita, while disappointed, was understanding. People in TV news were used
  to unexpected events disrupting their lives, even their illicit affairs.
  She had asked, "Do you need me on the story?"
  He told her, "If we do, you'll hear soon enough."

  It appeared that Special Agent Havelock, having attached himself to
  Crawford Sloane, intended to follow the anchorman into the meeting in
  Insen's office. But Insen blocked his way.
  "We're going to discuss some private network business. You can have Mr.
  Sloane again as soon as we've finished. In the meantime, if there's
  anything urgent, feel free to barge in."
  "If it's all the same to you," Havelock said, "I'll barge in now and see
  where Mr. Sloane will be." He eased determinedly past Insen and surveyed
  the room inside.
  Behind Insen's desk were two doors. Havelock opened both. One was to a
  supplies closet; after looking inside, he closed it. Another opened onto
  a toilet and washroom. The FBI man stepped inside, looked around, then
  came out.
  "Just wanted to be sure," he told Insen, "that there was no other way in
  or out of here."
  "I could have told you there wasn't," Insen said.
  Havelock smiled thinly. "Some things I prefer to check myself." He left
  the office and found himself a chair outside.
  Leslie Chippingham was already seated in the office when the FBI agent
  made his inspection. Now, as Sloane and Insen joined him, he said,
  "Chuck, you spell it out for Crawf."
  "The fact is," Insen said, looking at Sloane directly, "we do not have
  confidence in government agencies and their ability to handle this
  situation. Now, Les and I don't want to depress you, but we all remember
  how long it took the FBI to find Patricia Hearst-more than a year and a
  half. And there's something else."
  Insen reached among the papers on his desk and produced what Sloane
  recognized as a copy of his own book, The Camera and the Truth. Insen
  opened it at a page with a bookmark.
 150        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "You wrote, yourself, Crawf: 'We who live in the United States will not
  remain free from terrorism in our own backyard much longer. But neither
  mentally nor in other ways are we prepared for this pervasive, ruthless
  kind of warfare.' " Insen closed the book. "Les and I agree with that.
  Totally."
  A silence followed. The reminder of his own words startled and shocked
  Sloane. In the privacy of his mind he had begun to wonder if some
  terrorist motive, perhaps relating to himself, could be behind the
  seizure of Jessica, Nicky and his father. Or was the idea too
  preposterous even to consider? Seemingly not, as the thinking of the
  other experienced newsmen was obviously moving in that direction.
  At length he said, "Do you seriously think that terrorists . . ."
  Insen responded, "It's a possibility, isn't it?"
  "Yes." Sloane nodded slowly in agreement. "I've begun wondering too."
  "Remember," Chippingham put in, "that at this point we've no idea who the
  people are who have taken your family, or what they want. It could turn
  out to be a conventional kidnapping with demands for ransom money and,
  god knows, that's bad enough. But we're also considering-because of who
  and what you are--other long-shot options."
  Insen picked up the thread of what had been said earlier. "We mentioned
  the FBI. Again, we don't want to worry you, but if Jessica and the others
  are spirited out of this country in some way, which is a possibility, I'm
  afraid, then what government has to fall back on is the CIA. Well, in all
  the years that U.S. nationals have been prisoners in Lebanon, the CIA,
  with all its power and resources, spy satellites, intelligence and infil-
  tration, has never been able to discover where a semiliterate, ragtag
  band of terrorists was holding them. And that in a tiny country only
  slightly larger than the state of Delaware. So who can say if the same
  old CIA would do any better in other parts of the world?"
  It was the news president who offered a conclusion.
  "So that's what we mean, Crawf," Chippingham said, "by saying we don't
  have confidence in the government agencies.
            The Evening News     151

 But what we do believe is that we ourselves-an experienced news
 organization accustomed to investigative reporting-have a better than
 average chance to discover where your family has been taken."
  For the first time that day, Sloane's spirits rose.
  Chippingharn continued, "So what we've decided is to set up our own CBA
  News investigative task force. Our effort will be nationwide at first,
  then, if necessary, worldwide. We'll use all our resources plus
  investigative techniques that have worked in the past. As for people,
  we'll throw in the best talent we have, starting now,"
  Sloane felt a surge of gratitude and relief. He started to say, "Les .
  . . Chuck . . ."
  Chippingham stopped him with a gesture. "Don't say it. There's no need.
  Of course, some of this is because of you, but also it's our business."
  Insen leaned forward. "There's one thing we want to ask you at this
  point, Crawf. The task force needs to be headed by an experienced
  correspondent or producer, someone who can take charge, who's good at
  investigative reporting and in whom you have confidence. Is there anyone
  you'd like to name?"
  Crawford Sloane hesitated for the briefest moment, weighing his personal
  feelings against what was at stake. Then he said firmly, "I want Harry
  Partridge."

 The kidnappers, like foxes returning to a hidden burrow, had gone to
 ground in their temporary headquarters, the rented property south of
 Hackensack, New Jersey.
  It was a collection of old, decaying structure&-a main house and three
  outbuildings-which had been unused for several years until Miguel, after
  studying alternative locations and real estate advertisements, signed a
  one-year lease with full pay-
   152        ARTHUR BAILEY

 ment in advance. A year was the shortest rental period suggested by the
 agents. Miguel, not wishing to reveal that the place would be used for
 little more than a month, agreed to the terms without question.
  The type of property and its location-a thinly occupied, run-down
  neighborhood-were ideal in numerous ways. The house was large, could
  accommodate all seven members of the Colombian gang, and its state of
  disrepair didn't matter. The outbuildings made it possible to keep six
  vehicles under cover and out of sight. No other occupied properties were
  close by, and privacy was aided by surrounding trees and other foliage.
  A further advantage was the nearness of Teterboro Airport, not much more
  than a mile away. Teterboro, used mainly by private aircraft, figured
  largely in the kidnappers' plans.
  From the beginning of the conspiracy, Miguel foresaw that immediately
  after the victims' seizure a hue and cry would follow, with police
  roadblocks and intensive searches. He therefore decided that any
  immediate attempt to travel a long distance would be unsafe. On the other
  hand, there must be a temporary hideaway, well clear of the Larchmont
  area.
  The Hackensack property was roughly twenty-five road miles from where the
  kidnapping had occurred. The ease with which they had returned here and
  the absence of pursuit proved that Miguel's planning had been
  effective-so far.
  The three prisoners-Jessica, Nicholas and Angus Sloanewere now in the
  main house. Still drugged and unconscious, they had been carried to a
  large room on the second floor. Unlike other rooms in the dilapidated,
  mildewed house, this one had been thoroughly cleaned and repainted in
  white. Additional electric outlets and overhead fluorescent lights had
  been installed. There was new pale-green linoleum on the floor. The
  ex-doctor, Baudelio, had specified and overseen the changes which were
  carried out by the group's handyman-mechanic, Rafael.
  Two hospital cots with side restraining rails now stood in the center of
  the room. Jessica was on one, the boy, Nicholas, on the other. Their arms
  and legs were secured by straps-a
            The Evening News     153

 precaution against their regaining consciousness, though for the time
 being that was not intended.
  While anesthesiology was seldom an exact science, Baudelio was confident
  that his "patients"-as he now thought of them -would remain sedated for
  another half hour, perhaps longer.
  Alongside the two cots was a narrow metal bed and mattress which had been
  hastily brought in and set up to accommodate Angus, whose presence had
  not been expected. As part of the improvisation, his limbs were secured
  with lengths of rope instead of straps. Even now, Miguel, watching from
  across the room, was unsure about what to do with the old man. Should he
  be killed and his body buried outside after dark? Or should he somehow
  be included in the original plan? A decision had to be made soon.
  Baudelio was working around the three recumbent forms, setting up
  intravenous stands, putting fluid bags in place. On a table covered with
  a green cotton cloth he had laid out instruments, drug packages and
  trays. Although intravenous catheters for entering veins through the skin
  were all that was likely to be needed, Baudelio had a long-established
  habit of having other equipment available for use in difficulty or
  emergencies. Assisting him was Socorro, the woman with ties to both the
  Medellin cartel and Sendero Luminoso; during her several undercover years
  in the United States she had qualified as a nursing aide.
  With raven-dark hair twisted into a bun behind her head, Socorro had a
  shm, lithe body, olive skin, and features that might have been beautiful
  had she not worn a permanently sour expression. Although she did whatever
  was required of her and expected no favors because of her sex, Socorro
  seldom spoke and never revealed what went on within her mind. She had
  also rejected, with blunt profanity, sexual overtures from some of the
  men.
  For these reasons Miguel had labeled Socorro mentally "the inscrutable
  one." While he was aware of her dual affiliation and that Sendero
  Luminoso had, in fact, insisted on Socorro's inclusion in the kidnap
  group, he had no reason to mistrust her. He occasionally wondered,
  though, if Socorro's long exposure to
 154        ARTHUR DAILEY

 the American scene had diluted her Colombian and Peruvian loyalties.
  The question was one Socorro herself would have had trouble answering.
  On the one hand, she had always been a revolutionary, initially finding an
  outlet for her fervor with the Colombian M-19 guerrillas, then more
  recently-and profitably-with the Medellin cartel and Sendero Luminoso. Her
  conviction about the Colombian and Peruvian governments was that she wanted
  the villainous ruling class killed and would happily join the slaughter.
  At the same time she had been indoctrinated to consider the U.S. power
  structure as equally evil. Yet after three years of living in the United
  States and receiving friendly fairness where hostility and oppression would
  have been easier to handle, she found it difficult to continue despising
  and regarding as enemies America and its people.
  Right now she was doing her best to hate these three captives-rico
  bourgeois scum, she assured herself-but not wholly succeeding . . .
  damnably not succeeding . . . because pity, in a revolutionary, was a
  contemptible emotionI
  But once out of this perplexing country, as all of them would be very soon,
  Socorro was sure she could do better and be stronger, more consistent in
  her hatreds.
  From a tilted-back chair on the far side of the room, Miguel said to
  Baudelio, "Tell me what it is you are doing." His tone made clear it was
  an order.
  "I am working quickly because the midazolam I administered will very soon
  wear off. When it does, I shall begin injections of propofol, an
  intravenous anesthetic, a longer-acting drug than the earlier one and more
  suitable for what is ahead."
  As he moved and spoke, Baudelio seemed transformed from his normal gaunt
  and ghostlike self to the teacher and practicing anesthesiologist he had
  once been. The same effect, a stirring of long-discarded dignity, had
  occurred shortly before the kidnap. But he showed no concern, then or now,
  that his skills were being criminally debased or that the circumstances he
  was sharing were despicable.
  He continued, "Propofol is a tricky drug to use. The opti-            The Evening News     155

 mum dose for each individual varies, and if too much accumulates in the
 bloodstream death can result. So initially there must be experimental
 doses, closely monitored."
  Miguel asked, "Are you sure you can handle it?"
  "If you have doubts," Baudelio said sarcastically, "you are free to get
  someone else."
  When Miguel failed to answer, the ex-doctor went on, "Because these
  people will be unconscious when we transport them, we must be certain
  there is no vomiting and aspiration into the lungs. Therefore while we
  are waiting there will be a period of enforced starvation. However, they
  must not become dehydrated, so I shall give them fluids intravenously.
  Then at the end of two days, which you tell me is the time I have, we
  shall be ready to put them into those." With his head, Baudelio gestured
  to the wall behind him.
  Propped upright against the wall were two open funeral caskets, solidly
  constructed and silk-lined. One was smaller than the other. The
  ornamented hinged lids for both had been removed and stood alongside.
  The caskets reminded Baudelio of a question. Pointing to Angus Sloane,
  he asked, "Do you want him prepared, or not?"
  "If we take him, do you have the medical supplies to handle it?"
  -Yes. There's a reserve of everything in case something goes wrong. But
  we'd need another His eyes returned to the caskets by the wall.
  Miguel said irritably, "I do not need to be told that."
  Still, he wondered. The original orders from Medellin and Sendero
  Luminoso specified abduction of the woman and the boy and then, as soon
  as possible afterward, their transfer to Peru. The caskets were to be a
  covert means of transportation; a phony cover story had been devised to
  forestall an exit search by U.S. Customs. Once in Peru the prisoners
  would become prize hostages~-high-stakes bargaining chips against the
  fulfilment of unique demands by Sendeio Luminoso, their nature yet to be
  disclosed. But would the unexpected addition of Crawford Sloane's father
  be regarded as an added prize or, at this point, a needless risk and
  burden?
 156        ARTHUR HAILEY

  If there had been some way to do so, Miguel would have sought an answer
  from his superiors. But the only secure communication channel was not
  open to him at that moment, and to telephone on one of the cellular
  phones would leave the record of a call. Miguel had been emphatic with
  everyone in the Hackensack operating group that the phones were solely
  for vehicle-to-vehicle or vehicle-to-headquarters use. Positively no
  calls were to be made to other numbers. The few outside calls that were
  necessary had been made from public pay phones.
  Therefore the decision was his alone. He must also consider that
  obtaining an extra casket meant taking additional risks. Was it wortli
  it?
  Miguel reasoned that it was. From experience, he knew it was almost a
  certainty that after Sendero Luminoso's ransom demands were made known,
  one of the captives would have to be killed and the body dumped where it
  would be found--all to make the point that the kidnappers were serious.
  Possession of Angus Sloane would mean an extra body for that purpose,
  leaving either the woman or the boy to be executed later if it became
  necessary to make the same point twice. So in that sense the extra
  captive was a bonus.
  Miguel told Baudelio, "Tes, the old man goes."
  Baudelio nodded. Despite his outward assurance, he was nervous around
  Miguel today because, the night before, Baudeho had committed what he now
  recognized as a serious mistake, a possible breach of everyone's
  security. While he was alone, in a moment of profound loneliness and
  dejection, he had used one of the cellular phones to call Peru. It was
  a woman he had spoken to, his slatternly live-in companion and only
  friend, whose firequently drunken companionship he sorely missed.
  It was because of Baudelio's continuing anxiety about that call that he
  was slow to react when suddenly, unexpectedly, a crisis confronted him.

  Jessica, during the struggle outside the Larchmont supermarket, had had
  only a minute or two, first of shock, then horror, to grasp the enormity
  of what was happening. Even
            The Evening News     157

 after her screams had been silenced by the gag slapped over her mouth, she
 continued to struggle fiercely and desperately, aware that Nicky, too, had
 been seized by the unknown brutes around them and that Angus had been
 savagely struck down. But moments later, as the strong injected sedative
 circulated through her bloodstream, blackness supervened and she fell into
 deep unconsciousness.
  But now, without knowing how long it had lasted, she was reviving, her
  memory returning. She became aware, dimly at first and then more clearly,
  of sounds around her. She tried to move, to speak, but found she could
  do neither. When she transferred the effort to her eyes, they would not
  open.
  It was as if she were at the bottom of a well of darkness, attempting to
  do something, anything, but able to do nothing.
  Then, as more moments passed, the voices became clearer, the awful memory
  of events at Larchmont sharpened.
  At last Jessica's eyes opened.
  Baudelio, Socorro and Miguel were all looking elsewhere and failed to see
  it happen.
  Jessica was aware of feeling coming back into her body but could not
  understand why her arms and legs wouldn't move, except for the smallest
  distance. Then she saw that her nearer arm, the left, was constricted by
  a strap and realized she was on what looked like a hospital bed, and that
  her other arm and both legs were restricted in the same way.
  She turned her head slightly and froze in horror at what she saw.
  Nicky was on another bed, imprisoned like herself. Beyond him Angus, too,
  was tied down with ropes. And then-Oh, nol Oh, godl-she glimpsed the two
  open funeral caskets, one smaller than the other, clearly intended for
  herself and Nicky.
  In a single instant she began to scream and struggle wildly. Somehow, in
  her demmted terror, she managed to get her left arm free.
  Hearing the scream, the three conspirators swung toward her. For a moment
  Baudelio, who should have taken instant action, was too startled to move.
  By then Jessica had seen them all.
 158        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Still struggling wildly, she reached out with her left hand, trying
  desperately to find something to use as a weapon to protect herself and
  Nicky. The table of instruments was beside her. As her fingers groped
  frantically, she seized what felt like a kitchen paring knife. It was a
  scalpel.
  Now Baudelio, having collected his wits, raced toward her. Seeing Jessica's
  free arm, he tried to refasten it with Socorro's help.
  But Jessica was faster. In her desperation she reached out with the metal
  object, slashing wildly, managing to gash Baudelio's face, then Socorro's
  hand. At first, thin red lines appeared on both. A moment later blood
  gushed out.
  Baudelio ignored the pain and tried to secure that flailing arm. Miguel,
  hurrying forward, hit Jessica savagely with his fist, then helped Baudelio.
  With Baudelio's wound dripping blood onto Jessica and the cot, they managed
  to re-strap Jessica's arm.
  Miguel retrieved the scalpel. Though Jessica still struggled, it was to no
  avail. Defeated and helpless, she broke down in tears.
  Then, another complication. Nicky's sedation was also wearing off. Becoming
  aware of the shouting, and of his mother nearby, he returned to
  consciousness more quickly. He too began screaming, but despite his
  struggles couldn't free himself from the restraining straps.
  Angus, who had been sedated later than the other two, did not stir.
  By now the noise and confusion were overwhelming, but Baudelio and Socorro
  both knew their own wounds had to be treated ahead of anything else.
  Socorro, with the lesser injury, put a temporary adhesive dressing on her
  own cut hand, then turned to aid Baudelio. She taped gauze pads over his
  face, though they were quickly soaked with blood.
  Recovering from initial shock, he nodded an acknowledgment, then pointed
  to the assembled equipment and murmured, 66 Help me."
  Socorro tightened the strap above Jessica's left elbow. Then Baudelio
  inserted a hypodermic needle into a vein and injected
            The Evening News     159

 the propofol he had prepared earlier. Jessica, watching and screaming,
 fought against the drug's effect until her eyes closed and once more she
 was unconscious.
  Baudelio and Socorro, moved on to Nicky and repeated the process. He,
  too, stopped his painful cries and slumped back, his brief period of
  awareness ended.
  Then, rather than take a chance on the old man regaining consciousness
  and causing trouble, Angus was also given propofol.
  Miguel, while not interfering in the latter stages, had been glowering.
  Now he accused Baudelio, "You incompetent asshole!" Eyes blazing, he
  stormed on, "iPinche cabr6nl You could ruin everything! Do you know what
  you are doing?"
  "Yes, I know," Baudelio said. Despite the gauze pads, blood was streaming
  down his face. "I made an error of judgment. I promise it will not happen
  again."
  Without replying, his face flushed with anger, Miguel stalked out.
  When he had gone, Baudelio used a portable mirror to inspect his bloody
  wound. Immediately be knew two things. First, he would carry a scar,
  running the full length of his face, for the remainder of his life.
  Second, and more important, the gaping, open cut needed to be closed and
  sutured at once. In present circumstances he could not go to a hospital
  or another doctor. Baudelio knew there was no other choice than to do it
  himself, however difficult and painful that might be. As best she could,
  Socorro would have to help.
  During his early medical training, Baudelio, like any student, had
  learned to suture minor wounds. Later, as an anesthesiologist, he watched
  hundreds of incisions being stitched. Then, while working for the
  Medellin cartel, he had done some wound repairs himself and knew the
  procedures needed now.
  Feeling weak, he sat himself in front of the mirror and told Socorro to
  bring his regular medical bag. From it he selected surgical needles, silk
  thread and a local anesthetic, lidocaine.
  He explained to Socorro what, between them, they would do. As usual, she
  said little except an occasional "ISP" or "Iestd
 160        ARTHUR HAILEY

 bien!" Then, without further discussion, Baudelio began to inject lidocaine
 along the margins of his wound.
  The whole procedure took almost two hours and, despite the local
  anesthetic, the pain was excruciating. Several times Baudelio came close to
  fainting. His hand shook frequently, which made the sutures uneven. Adding
  to his difficulties was the awkward, reverse effect of working with a
  mirror. Socorro passed him what he asked for and, once or twice when he was
  near collapse, supported him. In the end he managed to hold on and, though
  some clumsy sutures meant the residual scar would be worse than he had at
  first supposed, the gap in his cheek was closed and he knew the wound would
  heal.
  Finally, knowing the most difficult part of his Medellin/ Sendero
  assignment was still ahead and that he needed rest, Baudelio took two
  hundred milligrams of Seconal and slept.

                3

 At about 11:50 A.M., in the apartment at Port Credit, Harry Partridge had
 switched the living room TV to a Buffalo, New York, station-a CBA affiliate.
 All Buffalo TV stations, whose signals had only to travel an unobstructed
 sixty miles across Lake Ontario, were received clearly in the Toronto area.
  Vivien had gone out and would not be back until midafternoon.
  Partridge hoped to learn, from the noon news, the latest developments
  following yesterday's Muskegon Airlines disaster at Dallas-Fort Worth.
  Consequently at 11:55, when programming was interrupted by the CBA News
  Special Bulletin, Partridge was watching.
  He was as shocked and horrified as everyone else. Could it really be true,,
  he wondered, or just some incredible snafu? But experience told him that
  CBA News would not have put out a bulletin without satisfying itself of the
  story's authenticity.
            The Evening News     161

  As he watched Don Kettering's face on the screen and heard the continuing
  report, he felt, more than anything, a personal concern for Jessica. And
  mixed with his emotions was a surge of camaraderie and pity for Crawford
  Sloane.
  Partridge also knew, without even thinking about it, that his vacation,
  which had scarcely begun, was already over.
  It was no surprise, then, to receive a phone call some fortyfive minutes
  later, asking him to come to CBA News headquarters in New York. What did
  surprise him was that it was a personal appeal from Crawford Sloane.
  Sloane's voice, Partridge discerned, was barely under control. After the
  preliminaries, Sloane said, "I desperately need you, Harry. Les and Chuck
  are setting up a special unit; it will work on two levels-daily reports
  on air and deep investigation. They asked me who I wanted in charge. I
  told them there's only one choice-you."
  In all the years that he and Sloane had known each other, Partridge
  realized they had never been closer than at this moment. He responded,
  "Hang in there, Crawf. I'll be on the next flight."
  "Thank you, Harry. Is there anyone you especially want to work with?
  "Yes. Find Rita Abrams, wherever she is--in Minnesota sornewhere-and
  bring her in. The same for Minh Van Canh."
  "If they're not waiting when you get here, they'll be with you soon
  after. Anyone else?"
  Thinking quickly, Partridge said, "I want Teddy Cooper from London."
  "Cooper?" Sloane sounded puzzled, then remembered. "He's our bureau
  researcher, isn't he?"
  "Right."
  Teddy Cooper was an Englishman, a twenty-five-year-old product of what
  the British snobbishly called a red-brick university, and a cheerful
  Cockney who might have auditioned successfully for Me and My GirL He was
  also, in Partridge's opinion, a near-genius at turning ordinary research
  into detective work and following it up with shrewd deductions.
  While working in Europe, Partridge had discovered
 162        ARTHUR HAILEY

 Cooper, who at the time held a minor librarian's job at the British
 Broadcasting Corporation. Partridge had been impressed with some inventive
 research work that Cooper had done for him. Later he was instrumental in
 having Cooper employed, with more money and better prospects, by CBA's Lon-
 don bureau.
  "You've aot him," Sloane replied. "He'll be on the next Concorde out of
  England."
  "If you feel up to it," Partridge said, "I'd like to ask some questions,
  so I have something to think about on the way down."
  "Of course. Go ahead."
  What followed was a near-replay of queries already put by FBI agent
  Havelock. Had there been threats? . . . Any special antagonism? . . .
  Unusual experiences? . . . Was there any notion, even the wildest, as to
  who . . . ? Was there anything known that had not been broadcast?
  The asking was necessary, but the answers were all negative.
  "Is there anything at all you can think of," Partridge persisted, "some
  little incident, perhaps, which you may have dismissed at the time or even
  hardly noticed, but which might relate to what has happened?"
  "The answer's no at the moment," Sloane said. "But I'll think about it."
  After they hung up, Partridge resumed his own preparations. Even before
  Sloane's call he had begun packing a suitcase that only an hour earlier he
  had unpacked.
  He telephoned Air Canada, making a reservation on a flight leaving
  Toronto's Pearson International at 2:45 P.M. It was due into New York's La
  Guardia Airport at 4 P.m. Next, he called for a taxi to collect him in
  twenty minutes.
  After his packing was finished, Partridge scribbled a goodbye note to
  Vivien. He knew she would be disappointed at his abrupt departure, as he
  was himself Along with the note he left a generous check to cover the.
  apartment refurbishing they had discussed.
  As he looked around for a place to leave the note and
            The Evening News     163

 check, a buzzer sounded in the apartment. It was the intercom from the
 lobby below. The taxi he ordered had arrived.
  The last thing he saw before leaving was, on a sideboard, the tickets for
  the next day's Mozart concert. He reflected sadly that those-as well as
  other unused tickets and invitations in the past-represented, more than
  anything else, the uncertain pattern of a TV newsman's life.

  The Air Canada flight was non-stop, a 727 with all-economy seating. A
  light passenger load enabled Partridge to have a three-seat section to
  himself. He had assured Sloane that he would apply his mind to the
  kidnapping while en route to New York and had intended to begin planning
  the direction he and the CBA News investigative group should take. But
  the information he had was sketchy, and obviously he needed more. So
  after a while he gave up and, sipping a vodka-tonic, allowed his thoughts
  to drift.
  He considered, on a personal level, Jessica and himself.
  Over the years since Vietnam he had grown accustomed to regarding Jessica
  as belonging only in the past, as someone he had once loved but who was
  no longer relevant to him and in any case far beyond his reach. To an
  extent, Partridge realized, his thinking had been an act of
  self-discipline, a safeguard against feeling sorry for himself, self-pity
  being something he abhorred.
  But now, because Jessica was in danger, he admitted to himself that he
  cared as much about her as ever, and always had. Face it, you're still
  in love with her. Yes I am. And not with some shadowy memory, but with
  a person who was living, vital, real.
  So whatever his role was to be in searching for Jessica-and Crawf himself
  had asked that it be a major one--Harry Partridge knew that his love for
  Jessica would drive and sustain him, even though he would hold that love
  secret, burning out of sight within himself
  Then, with what he recognized as a characteristic touch of quirky humor,
  he asked himself, Am I being disloyal?
  Disloyal to whom? Of course, to Gemma who was dead.
 164        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Ah, dearest Gemma! Earlier today, when he had remembered the one exception
  to his apparent inability to cry, he had almost let memories about her
  crowd in. But he had pushed them away as being more than he could handle.
  But now thoughts of Gemma were flooding back. She will always come back he
  thought.

  A few years after his duty tour in Vietnam and some other hard-living
  assignments, CBA News sent Partridge to be resident correspondent in Rome.
  He remained there almost five years.
  Among all television networks, an assignment to a Rome bureau was
  considered a plum. The standard of living was high, living costs modest by
  comparison with big cities elsewhere, and though pressures and tensions
  were inevitably transmitted from New York, the local pace of life was
  leisurely and easy.
  As well as reporting on area stories and sometimes roving far afield,
  Partridge covered the Vatican. Also, several times he traveled on papal
  airplanes, accompanying Pope John Paul 11 on the pontiffs international
  peregrinations.
  It was on one of those papal journeys he met Gemma.

  Partridge was often amused at the assumption by outsiders that a papal air
  journey was an exercise in decorum and restraint. In fact, it wasn't. In
  particular, in the press section at the rear of the airplane the reverse
  was true. Invariably there was muchpartying and drinking-the liquor
  unlimited and freeand during long overnight flights, sexual dalliance was
  not unknown.
  Partridge once heard the papal airplane described by a fellow correspondent
  as having different levels, ranging--as in Dante's Inferno--all the wayfrom
  hell to heaven. (K'hile there was never any permanent aircraft earmarked
  for the Pope's flights, the special interior configuration for each journey
  was usually the same.)
  At thefront of the airplane on every trip was a spacious cabin outfittedfor
  the Pope. It contained a bed and two large comfortable seats, sometimes
  three.
            The Evening News     165

  The next section back was for senior members of the Pope's entourage-his
  Secretary of State, some cardinals~ the Pope's doctor, secretary and
  valet. Then, behind another divider was a cabin for bishops and
  lower-ranking priests.
  In between one of theforward cabins, and depending on the type of
  airplane was an open space where all the gifts the Pope received on
  hisjourney were stored. It was inevitably a large, rich pile.
  Finally there was the last cabin in the plane-forjournalists. The seat
  con uration here was tourist, but with first-class ser-
      Ifig vice, many flight attendants, and superb food and wine. There
      were generous gifts for journalists too, usually from the airline
      involved which, more often than not, was Alitalia. Airlines, astute
      in public relations, recognized a chance for good publicity when
      they saw one.
  As to the journalists themselves, they were an average group from their
  profession, an international mixture of newspaper, television and radio
  reporters, the television people accompanied by technical crews-all with
  normal interests, normal skepticism, and a penchant at times for
  irreverent behavior.
  While no TV network would ever admit it openly, they privately preferred
  that correspondents reporting on religious subjects, such as a papal
  journey, not be committed deeply to any faith. A religious adherent, they
  feared, would send in cloying reports. A healthy skepticism was preferred
  In that regard, Harry Partridge filled the bill
  Some seven years after his own experiences on papalflights, Partridge
  greatly admired a 1987 TV news report by ABCs Judd Rose who was covering
  a visit by Pope John Paul II to Los Angeles. Rose successfully trod a
  hairline between hard news and pyrrhonism with his commentary.

   For the media capital that is Hollywood, it's a media event that's
   heaven-sent. All the pomp of a royal wedding, all the hype of a Super
   Bowl-all this with a cast of thousands and a star straight from central
   casting . . . Space age technology and dramatic imagery-it's the sort
   of thing John Paul favors and the camera loves.
 166        ARTHUR HAILEY

   [The Pope is] carefully crafted and controlled. He speaks out often but
   is seldom spoken to. The only time reporters can ask questions is in brief
   sessions on his plane when he travels . . . Media coverage has been
   exhaustive. The papal trip has become an electronic extravaganza like Live
   Aid or Liberty Weekend, and some Catholics wonder if anyone will know the
   difference.
   Theology and technology-it's a powerful union and John Paul's using it to
   preach his message as no Pope before him ever could. The world is
   watching, but the real test of the great communicator is whether we're
   listening too.

  Rose was absolutely right, Partridge reminisced, about that brief
  opportunity to ask the Pope questions aboard the papal airplane. In fact,
  if it had not been for one short question-andanswer exchange, what
  developed between himself and Gemma might never have . . .

  It was one of Pbpe John Paul's longer journeys-to nearly a
 dozen countries in Central America and the Caribbean, and was
 on an Alitalia DC-10. There had been an overnight flight and
 early the next morning, about two hours before a scheduled
 landing, the Pope appeared unannounced in the rear press sec
 tion. He was in everyday attire --- a white cassock, a zucchetto on
 his head, and od his feet, brown loafers-which was norma4
 except when specially dressed for a papal mass.
  He stopped near Harry Partridge, appearing pensive. Within the press cabin,
  TV camera lights were coming on; several reporters had tape recorders
  running.
  Partridge stood and, hoping to ease into a reportable conversation,
  inquired politely, "Your Holiness, did you sleep well?"
  The Pope smiled and answered, "Very few."
  Puzzled, Partridge asked, "Very few, your Holiness. Very few hours?"
  There was no answer, only a slight shake of the head "ile John Paul was an
  accomplished linguist in several languages, sometimes his English was
  solecistic. Partridge could have con-
              The Evening News     167

 versed adequately in Italian, but wanted the Pope's words in the language
 of CBA viewers.
  He decided to try a more newsworthy question. For several weeks there had
  been discussion and controversy about a possible papal visit to the
  Soviet Union. "Your Holiness, " Partridge asked, "do you want to go to
  Russia?"
  This time there was a clear, "Yes. " Then the Pope added, "The Poles, the
  Russians, they are all slaves. But they are all my people. 11
  Before anything else could be said, the Pope turned and walked away,
  returning to his private quarters in the airplane.
  Among the reporters there was an instant hum, in several languagesp of
  questioning and speculation. The Alitalia flight attendants, who had been
  preparing breakfast, had stopped work and were listening intently.
  Someone in the press group asked, "Did you hear what he said-slaves!"
  Partridge glanced at his own cameraman and sound man. Both nodded. The
  sound man said, "We got it. "
  Somebody else was playing back a tape recording. The word "slaves" was
  heard distinctly.
  A reporter from a British news syndicate said doubtfully, "He m ea n t
  'Sla vs. ' He's a Sla v h imself It figu res~ "
  " 'Slaves' makes a helluva better story, " another voice rejoined.
  And so it did. Partridge knew it too. A literal reporting of the "slaves"
  description would arouse worldwide interest and discussion, perhaps
  create an international incident, with accusations and exchanges between
  the Kremlin, Warsaw and the Vatican. There could be embarrassmentfor the
  Pope, marring his triumphaljourney.
  Partridge was one of the older, more experienced hands aboard and was
  respected by his colleagues. Some of the others looked to him for a lead
  He considered briefly, It was a lively story, something seldom
  encountered on a papal trip. There might not be another. His inclination,
  as a skeptic, was to use it. And yet . . . skepticism did not override
  ordinary decency; andfor some in the business, journalistic ethics did
  exist.
 168        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Making up his mind, Partridge said clearly, so that everyone could hear.
  "He meant 'Slavs.'It's obvious that he did. I'm not going to use it. "
  There was no discussion, no spoken consensus or agreement, but afterward
  it became clear that no one else used the incident either.
  As the reporters and technical crews returned to their seats, the Alitalia
  flight attendants resumed work
  When Partridge's breakfast tray came, it contained something extra, not
  served to the others--a small glass vase containing a single rose.
  He looked up at the young stewardess who, smiling, in her smartly tailored
  green and black uniform, had brought the tray. He had noticed her several
  times before and heard other flight attendants call her Gemma. But now he
  was unexpectedly breathless at her closeness and, for an instant,
  tongue-tied
  Forever after, especially at times of terrible loneliness, he remembered
  Gemma as she was at that magic moment--age twenty-three, beautiful, with
  long, dark, lustrous hair, brown and sparkling eyes, and joyous with life
  like a fragrant morning flower in fresh spring air on a green and sunlit
  hillside.
  With unaccustomed awkwardness, he pointed to the rose. Later he would learn
  that she had goneforward andpurloined it from the Pope's own cabin. Now he
  asked, ""y this for me?"
  She smiled down at him and, with a soft Italian accent, said, "I brought
  it because you are a good, sweet man. I like you. "
  Even to himself his answer seemed inadequate and banal. "I like you, too."
  But banal or not, in those few moments his great and lasting love for Gemma
  had begun.

  Partridge drew his thoughts back to the present shortly before the Air
  Canada flight landed in New York. He was first off the airplane and strode
  quickly through La Guardia terminal. With only hand baggage, he was able
  to leave the airport without delay, taking a taxi to CBA News headquarters.
  He headed for Chuck Insen's office, but found it unoccupied. A senior
  producer at the Horseshoe called across, "Hi,
            The Evening News     169

 Harry! Chuck's at a press conference that's been arranged for Crawf. The
 whole thing's being taped. You'll be able to see it."
  Then, as Partridge walked toward the Horseshoe, the producer added, "Oh,
  in case no one's told you, Crawf's on the sidelines tonight. You'll be
  anchoring the news."

                4

 That evening, in the Medellin gang's hideaway at Hackensack, Miguel kept
 a radio tuned to an all-news station. With several of the others, he also
 watched a portable television, switching between news programs, all
 featuring reports on the Sloane family kidnap.
  Despite the intense interest and speculation, it was evident that nothing
  had been learned so far about the kidnappers' identities or motivations.
  Nor did law enforcement authorities know the escape route taken or of any
  specific areas where the kidnappers and their victims might have gone to
  ground. Some reports suggested that by now they could be many miles from
  New York. Others revealed that suspicious vehicles had been stopped and
  detained at roadblocks as far away as Ohio, Virginia and the Canadian
  border. Several criminal arrests had resulted from the police activity,
  but none was connected to the Sloanes.
  Descriptions of a Nissan passenger van believed to have been used by the
  kidnappers were still circulating. It meant that the van abandoned by
  Carlos at White Plains had not been found. Carlos had returned safely to
  the Hackensack house hours ago.
  Among Miguel and the others there was a sense of relief, though everyone
  knew that police forces all over North America were looking for them and
  their safety was only temporary. Because of the dangers still ahead,
  Miguel had established a guard roster. Even now Luis and Julio were
  patrolling outside
 170        ARTHUR HAILEY

 with Beretta submachine guns, trying to stay in the shadows of the house and
 outbuildings.
  Miguel knew that if their hideaway was discovered and the police moved in
  in force, there was little chance of any of them getting away. In that
  event, his original orders were clear: Neither of the kidnap victims was
  to be taken back alive. Now, the only thing that had changed was that the
  order applied to three instead of two.
  Of the various TV news broadcasts Miguel watched, the one that interested
  him most was the National Evening News from CBA. It amused him that
  Crawford Sloane was not in his usual anchor position; the substitute was
  someone named Partridge whom Miguel remembered vaguely seeing before.
  Sloane, however, was interviewed on air and shown at a previously recorded
  press conference.

  The press conference had been well attended by print, television and radio
  reporters, along with camera and sound crews. It was held in another CBA
  building, a block away from news headquarters. On a sound stage, folding
  chairs had been hastily set up; all were occupied, with many participants
  standing.
  There were no formal introductions and Crawford Sloane began with a brief
  statement. He expressed his shock and anxiety, then appealed to the news
  media and the public for any information which might help disclose where
  his wife, son and father had been taken, and by whom. He announced that a
  CBA phone center with a WATS line number had been set up to receive
  information. The center was already staffed by operators and a supervisor.
  A voice injected, "You'll be swamped with crank calls."
  Sloane responded, "We'll take our chances. All we need is one solid piece
  of knowledge. Someone, somewhere, has it."
  Twice during his statement Sloane had to pause to control emotion in his
  voice. Each time there was a sympathetic silence. A Los Angeles Times
  report next day described him as "dignified and impressive in agonizing
  circumstances."
  Sloane announced that he would answer questions.
  At first the questioning was also sympathetic. But then,
            The Evening News     171

 inevitably, some in the press corps weighed in with tougher queries.
  An Associated Press woman reporter asked, "Do you think it's possible,
  as some are already speculating, that your family may have been seized
  by foreign terrorists?"
  Sloane shook his head. "It's too early even to think about that."
  AP objected, "You're ducking the question. I asked if you thought it
  possible. "
  Sloane conceded, "I suppose it's possible."
  Someone from a local TV station asked the perennial question, "How do you
  feel about that?"
  Someone else groaned and Sloane wanted to answer, How the hell would you
  feel? Instead he replied, "Obviously, I hope it isn't true."
  A gray-haired former CBA correspondent, now with CNN, held up a copy of
  Sloane's book. "Do you continue to believe, as you wrote here, that
  'hostages should be expendable,' and are you still opposed to paying
  ransom-as you put it, 'directly or indirectly, ever'?"
  Sloane had anticipated the question and answered, "I don't believe that
  anyone as emotionally involved as I am at this moment can be objective
  about that."
  "Oh, come on, Crawf," the CNN man persisted. "If you were standing here
  instead of me, you wouldn't let anyone get away with that. I'll put the
  question another way: Do you regret having written those words?"
  "At this moment," Sloane said, "I find myself wishing they weren't being
  quoted against me."
  Another voice called out, "They're not being used against you and that's
  still no answer."
  A woman reporter from an A_BC magazine program raised her penetrating
  voice. "I'm sure you're aware that your statement about American hostages
  being expendable caused a great deal of distress to families who have
  relatives still imprisoned in the Middle East. Do you have more sympathy
  for those families now?"
  "I've always had sympathy," Sloane said, "but right now I
 172        ARTHUR HAILEY

 probably have a better understanding of those people's anguish."
  "Are you telling us that what you wrote was wrong?"
  "No," he said quietly, "I'm not saying that."
  "So if a ransom is demanded, you'll say adamantly no?"
  He raised his hands helplessly. "You're asking me to speculate on something
  that hasn't occurred. I won't do that."
  While not enjoying what was happening, Sloane acknowledged mentally that
  at plenty of press conferences in the past he had played hardball as an
  interrogator himself.
  An offbeat query came from Newsday. "Not much is known about your son
  Nicholas, Mr. Sloane."
  "That's because we keep our family life private. In fact, my wife insists
  on it."
  "It isn't private anymore," the reporter pointed out. "One thing I've been
  told is that Nicholas is a talented musician and might become a concert
  pianist one day. Is that true?"
  Sloane knew that in other circumstances Jessica would object to the
  question as an intrusion. At this moment, though, he didn't see how he
  could avoid answering it.
  "Our son does love music, always has, and his teachers say he's advanced
  for his age. As to his being a concert pianist or anything else, only time
  will tell."
  At length, when the questions seemed to be winding down, Leslie Chippingham
  stepped forward and declared the session at an end.
  Sloane was immediately surrounded by some who wanted to shake his hand and
  wish him well. Then, as quickly as he could, he slipped away.

  Miguel, having seen all the news he wanted, switched the television off and
  considered carefully what he had learned.
  First, neither the Medellin cartel nor Sendero Luminoso was suspected of
  involvement in the kidnappings. At this point, that was helpful. Second,
  and equally helpful, was the fact that no descriptions existed of himself
  or the other six conspirators. If the authorities had somehow obtained
  descriptions, almost certainly they would have been made public by now.
            The Evening News     173

  All of which, Miguel reasoned, made slightly less dangerous what he
  proposed to do next.
  He needed more money and, to get it, he must telephone tonight and arrange
  a meeting at, or near, the United Nations tomorrow.
  From the beginning, getting sufficient money into the United States had
  been a problem. Sendero Luminoso, which was financing this operation, had
  plenty of money in Peru. The difficulty was in circumventing Peru's
  exchange control laws and transferring hard currency in U.S. dollars to New
  York, at the same time keeping the movement of money-its source, routing
  and destination-secret.
  It had been done ingeniously, with help from a revolutionary sympathizer,
  a Sendero ally highly placed inside the Lima Peru, banking system. His
  accomplice in New York was a Peruvian diplomat, a senior aide to Peru's
  ambassador to the United Nations.
  The amount of operating funds allocated during planning by Sendero and
  Medellin was $850,000. This included payments to personnel, their
  transportation and living expenses, leasing a secret headquarters, the
  purchase of six vehicles, medical supplies, the funeral caskets, payments
  in the Little Colombia district of Queens for covert aid and firearms,
  commissions in Peru and New York on money transfers, plus bribes to an
  American woman banker. There would also be the cost of flying the captives
  by private aircraft from the U.S. to Peru.
  Almost all the money spent in New York had been drawn in cash by Miguel,
  through the United Nations source.
  The way it worked was that the Lima banker surreptitiously converted the
  funds entrusted to him by Sendero Luminoso into U.S. dollars, $50,000 at
  a time. He then made transfers to a New York bank at Dag Hammarskj6ld Plaza
  near United Nations headquarters, where the money was placed in a special
  sub-account of the Peruvian UN delegation. The account's existence was
  known only to Jos6 Antonio Salaverry, the UN ambassador's trusted aide, who
  had authority to sign checks, and to the bank's assistant manager, Helga
  Efferen. The woman banker personally took care of the special account.
 174        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Jos6 Antonio Salaverry was another secret supporter of Sendero, though not
  above taking a commission on the transferred funds. Helga was sleeping
  regularly with the duplicitous Salaverry and both were living a lavish New
  York lifestyle beyond their means, partying and keeping up with the
  free-spending United Nations diplomatic crowd. For that reason the extra
  money they made by secretly channeling the incoming funds was warmly
  welcomed.
  Whenever Miguel had needed money he telephoned Salaverry and stated the
  amount. A meeting was then arranged for a day or two later, usually at UN
  headquarters, occasionally elsewhere. In the meantime Salaverry would
  obtain a briefcase full of cash. Miguel would walk away with it.
  Only one thing bothered Miguel. On one occasion Salaverry let slip that
  while not knowing the money's specific purpose or where Miguel and the
  others from Medellin were hiding out, he had a pretty good idea of their
  objective. This, Miguel realized, could only mean there had been a security
  leak in Peru. At this point there was nothing he could do, but it made him
  wary of contacts with Jos6 Antonio Salaverry.
  Miguel glanced at the cellular phone beside him. For a moment he was
  tempted to use it, but knew he shouldn't and must go out. In a caf6 eight
  blocks away was a pay phone he had used before. He checked his watch: 7:10
  P.m. With luck, Salaverry would be in his mid-Manhattan apartment.
  Miguel put on a topcoat and walked quickly, keeping a lookout for any sign
  of unusual activity in the area. There was none.
  During the walk he thought again about the televised press conference with
  Crawford Sloane. Miguel had been interested in the reference to a book by
  Sloane which apparently included statements about never paying ransom and
  that "hostages should be expendable." Miguel hadn't known about the book
  nor, he was sure, had others in the Medellin cartel or Sendero Luminoso.
  He doubted, though, if the knowledge would have affected the decision to
  abduct Sloane's family; what someone wrote for publication and what they
  felt and did in private were often different. But either way, it made no
  difference now.
            The Evening News     175

  Something else of interest coming out of the press conference was the
  description of the mocoso Sloane brat as a possible concert pianist.
  Without any clear notion of how he might use it, Miguel tucked the nugget
  of information away.
  When he reached the cafe Miguel could see that only a few people were
  inside. Entering, he headed for the phone, which was at the rear, and
  dialed a number he had memorized. After three rings Salaverry answered.
  " 'Allo," he said with a strong Spanish accent.
  Miguel tapped three times on the phone mouthpiece with a fingernail, a
  signal that identified him. Then he said, keeping his voice low,
  "Tomorrow morning. Fifty cases." A "case" was a thousand dollars.
  He heard a quick gasp at the other end. The voice which came back sounded
  frightened. "jEstds locoZ phoning here tonight? Where are you? Can this
  call be traced?"
  Miguel said contemptuously, "Do you think I am a pendejo?" At the same
  time he realized that Salaverry had connected him with today's events;
  therefore meeting him would be dangerous. Still, there was no
  alternative. He needed cash to purchase-among other things-the additional
  casket for Angus Sloane. Also, Miguel knew there was plenty left in the
  New York account and wanted some extra money for himself before leaving
  the country. He was certain that more than just commissions had stuck to
  Jos6 Antonio Salaverry's grubby fingcrs.
  "We cannot meet tomorrow," Salaverry said. "It is too soon, and too short
  notice for the money. You must not . . ."
  "jCdllate! Do not waste my time." Miguel gripped the phone tightly,
  controlling his anger, still speaking softly so others in the caf& would
  not hear. "I am giving you an order. Get the fifty cases early. I will
  come to you in the usual way, shortly before noon. If you fail, you know
  how furious our mutual friends will be, and their arm has a long reach."
  "No, no! There is no need for their concern." There was a hasty,
  conciliatory change in Salaverry's voice. A threat of vengeance by the
  infamous Medellin cartel was not to be taken lightly. "I will do my
  best."
 176        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Miguel said curtly, "Do better than that. I will see you tomorrow." He hung
  up the phone and left the caf6.

  Inside the Hackensack hideaway the three captives remained sedated under
  Socorro's watchful guard. Throughout the night she administered additional
  dosages of propofol as Baudelio had instructed; she monitored vital signs
  and kept a record. Shortly before daylight Baudelio awakened from his own
  sedated sleep. After studying Socorro's medical log he nodded approval,
  then relieved her.
  In the early morning Miguel, who had slept only fitfully, watched TV news
  again. The Sloane kidnapping was still the top item, though there were no
  reports of new leads.
  Soon after, Miguel informed Luis that at eleven o'clock the two of them
  would be driving into Manhattan in the hearse.
  The hearse was the group's sixth vehicle, a Cadillac in good condition,
  bought secondhand. So far they had only used it twice. The remainder of the
  time the hearse had stayed out of sight at the Hackensack house, where it
  was referred to by the others as el angel negro, the black angel. The
  vehicle's inside floor, where a casket normally rested, was of handsome
  rosewood; built-in rubber rollers ensured that a casket's passage would be
  smooth. Interior sides and roof were lined with dark blue velvet.
  Miguel had originally planned to use the hearse only as a final means of
  transportation before the air journey to Peru, but now, clearly, it was
  their safest vehicle. The cars and the GMC truck had had too much exposure,
  especially during the Larchmont surveillance, and it was possible that
  descriptions of them had by this time been given to police and circulated.

  The weather had changed to pouring rain, with fiercely blowing gusts, the
  sky a sullen gray.
  With Luis driving, they took a circuitous route from Hackensack, several
  times changing direction and twice stopping to be sure they were not
  followed. Luis handled the hearse with extra care because of slick roads
  and poor forward visibility beyond the monotonously slapping windshield
  wipers. Having
            The Evening News     177

 gone south on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River as far as Weehawken,
 they entered the Lincoln Tunnel and emerged in Manhattan at 11:45 A.M.
  Both Miguel and Luis were wearing dark suits and ties, appropriate to their
  presence in a hearse.
  After leaving the tunnel they headed east on Fortieth Street. The heavy
  rain made for bumper-to-bumper crosstown traffic and painfully slow
  progress. Miguel watched pedestrians moving slowly and uncomfortably on
  crowded sidewalks.
  The paradox of riding through New York City in a hearse amused him. On one
  hand the vehicle was far too conspicuous for their purpose; on the other it
  commanded respect. At a previous intersection, a uniformed traffic agent-a
  "brownie," as New Yorkers called them-had even stopped other vehicles and
  waved them by.
  Miguel also noticed that many people who glanced at the hearse immediately
  looked away. He had observed the same thing before and wondered: Was it the
  reminder of death, the great oblivion, that disturbed them? He had never
  feared his own death, though he had no intention of making it easy for
  others to hasten its arrival.
  But whatever the reason, it didn't matter. What did was that no one in the
  crowds around them was likely to consider that this particular hearse, so
  close that they could touch it, contained two of the most sought-after
  criminals in the country, perpetrators of a crime that was the nation's
  hottest news story. The thought intrigued Miguel. It was also reassuring.
  They turned north onto Third Avenue, and a little short of Forty-fourth
  Street Luis pulled over to the curb and let Miguel out. Turning his collar
  up against the driving rain, Miguel walked the last two blocks east to
  United Nations headquarters. Despite his earlier thoughts about the hearse,
  arriving in it would court attention he didn't need. In the meantime Luis
  had instructions to keep moving and come back to the drop-off point in an
  hour. If Miguel did not appear, Luis would return every subsequent half
  hour.
  On the corner of Forty-fourth, Miguel bought an umbrella from a street
  vendor but found it hard to handle in the wind. A
 178        ARTHUR HAILEY

 few minutes later he crossed First Avenue to the white-fronted UN General
 Assembly Building. Because of the rain, the many flagpoles stood forlornly
 bare, bereft of flags. Passing an irongrille fence and the delegates'
 entrance, he ascended steps to a wide platform where visitors were admitted.
 Miguel, emptyhanded, was quickly cleared through a checkpoint inside where
 others were having their handbags and packages opened for inspection.
  In the large hall beyond, benches were filled with waiting visitors, their
  faces and clothes as diverse as the UN itself. A Bolivian woman in a bowler
  hat sat stoically. Beside her a small black child played with a stuffed
  white lamb. Nearby sat an old, weathered man wearing Afghan-type headgear.
  Two bearded Israelis argued over papers spread between them. And inter-
  spersed throughout the crowd were white-skinned Americans and British
  tourists.
  Ignoring those waiting, Miguel walked toward a prominent "Guided Tours"
  sign at the far end of the hall. Beside it, holding an attach~ case, Jos6
  Antonio Salaverry was waiting.
  Just like a weasel, Miguel thought, as he took in Salaverry's narrow,
  pinched face, receding hair and thin mustache. The Peruvian diplomat,
  usually exuding self importance, today appeared ill at ease.
  They exchanged the slightest of nods, then Salaverry led the way to an
  information desk where, with a delegate's authority, he signed Miguel in,
  using a bogus name. Miguel received a visitor's pass.
  As the two walked down an avenue flanked by pillars, a garden was visible
  through glass panels, and beyond it the East River. An escalator took them
  upward to the next floor where they entered the Indonesian Lounge,
  available only to diplomats and guests.
  The large, impressive room, where heads of state were entertained,
  contained magnificent art including the curtain of the Holy Kaabe entry to
  Mecca, a black tapestry inlaid with gold and silver and presented by the
  Saudis. A deep green carpet complemented white leather sofas and chairs,
  the furnishings ingeniously arranged so that several meetings could take
  place
            The Evening News     179

 at once, with none intruding on another. Miguel and Salaverry seated
 themselves in a small private section.
  As they faced each other, Jos6 Antonio Salaverry's thin lips twisted with
  displeasure. "I warned you it was dangerous to come here! There is already
  enough risk without creating more."
  Miguel asked calmly, "Why is coming here a risk?" He needed to find out how
  much this weakling knew.
  "You fool! You know why. The television, the newspapers, are full of what
  you have done, those people you have seized. The FBI, the police, are
  throwing everything into the search for you." Salaverry swallowed, then
  asked anxiously, "When are you going-all of you getting out of the
  country?"
  "Assuming what you say is true, why do you want to know? What difference
  does it make to you?"
 "Because Helga is frantic with anxiety. So am L"
  So the loose-tongued idiot had shared what he knew with his whoring woman
  banker. It meant that the original breach of security had widened and was
  now an imminent danger which had to be erased. Though Salaverry had no
  means of knowing, his foolish admission had sealed the fate of his woman
  and himself.
 "Before I answer," Miguel said, "give me the money."
  Salaverry manipulated a combination lock on his attach6 case. From the case
  he removed a bulging pressboard wallet tied with tape, and passed it over.
  Miguel opened the wallet, surveyed the money inside, then retied the tape.
 Salaverry asked petulantly, "Don't you want to count it?"
  Miguel shrugged. "You would not dare cheat me." He considered, then said
  with apparent casualness, "So you want to know when I and certain others
  will leave."
 "Yes, I do."
 "Where will you and the woman be tonight?"
 "In my apartment. We are too upset to go out."
  Miguel had been to the apartment and remembered the address. He told
  Salaverry, "Stay there. I cannot telephone because of reasons which will
  become clear. Therefore a messen-
   180        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ger will come to you tonight with the information you want. He will use the
 name Plato. When you hear that name, it is safe to let him in."
  Salaverry nodded eagerly. He seemed relieved.
  Miguel added, "I am doing you this service in return for your obtaining the
  money promptly." He touched the pressboard wallet.
  "Thank you. You understand I have no wish to be unreasonable . . ."
  "I understand. But stay home tonight."
  "Oh, I will."

  From the UN building, Miguel crossed First Avenue to the United Nations
  Plaza Hotel. On the main floor he went to a pay phone near the newsstand.
  He tapped out the memorized digits for a call to Queens. When a voice
  answered, he knew he was connected with a fortress-like private house in
  the Little Colombia distict of Jackson Heights. Miguel spoke briefly,
  avoiding use of names, gave the number of the pay phone from which he was
  calling and then hung up.
  He waited patiently by the phone; on two occasions when other people
  approached, he pretended to be using it. After seven minutes it rang. A
  voice confirmed that it was speaking from another pay phone. The call would
  not be traced or overheard.
  Speaking softly, Miguel stated his requirements. He was assured they could
  be met. A contract was arranged, a price of six thousand dollars agreed.
  Miguel gave Salaverry's apartment address and explained that the name
  "Plato" would ensure admittance. He emphasized, "It is to be done tonight
  and must appear to be a murder-suicide."
  His instructions, he was promised, would be carried out precisely.

  Miguel arrived at the Third Avenue rendezvous point a little less than an
  hour from the time he had left. Moments later Luis brought the hearse to
  the curb.
            The Evening News     181

  Getting in, out of the rain, Miguel told Luis, "We go now to the funeral
  place-the same one as before. You remember?"
  Luis nodded and, soon after, turned east toward the Queensboro Bridge.

 At times, when news was quiet, a network news organization was like a
 slumbering giant.
  It operated at considerably less than a hundred percent utilization and
  a substantial number of its talented people had what was referred to in
  the trade as "down time"-meaning they were not actively at work.
  Which was why, when a major news event occurred, there were experienced
  hands who could be-as another trade phrase went-"grabbed and fired up."
  On Friday morning, one day after the Sloane family kidnapping, the
  firing-up process had begun as the special task force headed by Harry
  Partridge, with Rita Abrams as senior producer, began assembling within
  CBA News headquarters.

  Rita, who had reached New York from Minnesota late the night before, came
  in to the newly assigned task force offices at 8 A.m. Harry Partridge,
  having spent the night in a luxury suite provided by the network at the
  Inter-Continental Hotel, joined her soon after.
  Wasting no time, he asked, "Any new developments?"
  "Zilch on the kidnap," Rita answered. "But there's a mob scene outside
  Crawf's house."
  "What kind of mob?"
  The two were in what would be the group conference room and Rita leaned
  back in a swivel chair. Despite the brevity of her vacation, she seemed
  refreshed, her usual vitality and drive
 182        ARTHUR HAILEY

 restored. Nor had she lost the quirky cynicism which those who worked with
 her enjoyed.
  "These days, everyone wants to touch the hem of an anchorman. Now that
  they've learned his address, Crawf's fans are pouring into Larchmont.
  Hundreds of them, maybe thousands. The police are having trouble coping and
  they're setting up road barriers."
  "We have a camera crew on site?"
  "Sure have. They camped out all night. I've told them to stay in place
  until Crawf leaves for work. By then, I'll have another crew out to replace
  them."
  Partridge nodded his approval.
  "It makes sense to assume the kidnappers, and therefore the action, have
  moved on from Larchmont," Rita said, "but I think we should protect
  ourselves by being around for a couple of days in case anything fresh
  breaks. That is, unless you have other ideas."
  "Not yet," he said; then added, "you know we've been given pretty much a
  blank check where talent is concerned?"
  "I was told last night. So I've asked for three producers to begin-Norman
  Jaeger, Iris Everly and Karl Owens. They'll be here soon. "
  "Great choices." Partridge knew all three well. Their abilities were among
  the best in CBA News.
  "Oh, I've allocated offices. Do you want to see yours?"
  Rita led the way around five adjoining offices which would constitute the
  task force operating base. Network news departments were perpetually in a
  state of flux, with temporary projects being created and disbanded, so when
  need arose, required accommodation could usually be found.
  Partridge would have an office to himself, as would Rita. Two other
  offices, already jammed with desks, would be shared by the additional
  producers, camera crews and support staff, some of whom were already moving
  in. Partridge and Rita exchanged greetings with them before returning to
  the fifth and largest office, the conference room, to continue planning.
  "What I'd like," Partridge said, "is to have a meeting as soon as possible
  with everyone who'll be working with us. We
            The Evening News     183

 can aflocate responsibilities, then begin work on a spot for tonight's
 news."
  Rita glanced at her watch: 8:45 A.M.
  "I'll set it up for ten o'clock," she said. "Right now I want to find out
  more about what's happening at Larchmont."

  "In all the years I've lived here," the Larchmont police sergeant said,
  "I've never seen anything like it."
  He was speaking with FBI Special Agent Havelock who had emerged from the
  Sloane house a few minutes earlier to survey a throng of spectators
  outside. The crowd had been growing in size since dawn and now packed the
  sidewalks in front of the house. In some places they spilled onto the
  road where police officers were trying, not too successfully, to control
  the crowd and keep passing cars moving. Otis Havelock, having stayed in
  the house overnight, was concerned that Sloane, who was inside getting
  ready for work, might be mobbed on his way out.
  Clustered by the front gate were television crews and other reporters.
  As Havelock appeared, TV cameras swung toward him amid shouted questions:
  "Have you heard from the kidnappers?"
  "How's Sloane holding up?"
  "Can we talk to Crawford?"
  "Who are you?"
  In response Havelock shook his head and waved his hands dismissingly.
  Beyond the press group, the crowd appeared orderly, though Havelock's
  appearance had increased the buzz of conversation.
  The FBI man complained to the police sergeant, "Can't you people keep
  this street clear?"
  "We're trying. The Chief has ordered barriers. We'll stop traffic and
  pedestrians, except for those who live on the street, then we'll try to
  clear these others out. It'll take at least an hour. The Chief doesn't
  want anyone hassled, not with all those cameras around."
  "Any idea where these people are from?"
 184        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "I asked a few," the sergeant said. "They mostly drove in from outside
  Larchmont. I guess it's seeing all that excitement on TV, and wanting a
  glimpse of Mr. Sloane. The streets around are full of their cars."
  Rain had begun to fall, but it didn't seem to discourage the watchers.
  Instead they put up umbrellas or huddled in their coats.
  Havelock returned to the house. Inside he told Crawford Sloane, who looked
  tired and gaunt, "When we leave, it will be in two unmarked FBI cars. I
  want you in the second. Crouch down in the back and we'll drive away fast."
  "No way," Sloane said. "There are media people out there. I'm one of them
  and I can't sail by as if I were the President."
  "There may also be someone out there from the people who seized your wife
  and family." Havelock's voice sharpened. "Who knows what they might try,
  including shooting you? So don't be a damn fool, Mr. Sloane. And remember
  I'm responsible for your safety."
  In the end they agreed to invite the camera crews and reporters into the
  hallway of the house for an impromptu press conference which Sloane would
  handle. As the journalists trooped in they looked around the luxurious home
  with curiosity, some with unconcealed envy. The questions and answers that
  followed were mostly repetitive of those the preceding day, the only new
  information being that there had been no communication from the kidnappers
  during the night.
  "I can't tell you any more," Sloane said finally. "There simply isn't
  anything. I wish there were."
  Havelock, while present and watchful, declined to participate in the
  exchanges and eventually the reporters, some of whom seemed resentful at
  the lack of news, left as they had come.
  "Now, Mr. Sloane," Havelock said, "I want us to leave here in the way I
  described-with you in the back of the car, down low and out of sight."
  Reluctantly, Sloane agreed.
  But in the execution of the plan, an unforeseen misfortune happened.
  Crawford Sloane entered the FBI car so quickly that it was
            The Evening News     185

 observed by only a few people in the crowd outside. However, those few
 promptly passed the word to others so that the message spread like
 fire--~'Sloane's in the second car." Within the same car Havelock and
 another FBI agent were in the backseat, with Sloane uncomfortably on his
 hands and knees between them. A third FBI agent was at the wheel.
  Two more FBI men were in the first car and both cars began moving
  immediately.
  With the crowd now apprised of Sloane's departure, some at the rear
  pushed forward, impelling those at the front off the sidewalk and onto
  the road. At that point several things occurred in swift succession.
  The lead car emerged from the Sloanes' driveway, waved out by a
  policeman. It was traveling fast, with the second car close behind. Then
  suddenly, as spectators opposite the driveway were pushed even farther
  onto the road, the first car's previously clear path was blocked. Its
  driver, shocked to see a hue of people facing him, jammed on his brakes.
  In other circumstances the lead car might have stopped in time. As it
  was, on a wet road surface slick from recent rain, it skidded sideways.
  To the sound of screeching tires followed by a series of horrifying thuds
  and human screams, the car plowed a path through the front ranks of
  spectators.
  The occupants of the second car-excepting Sloane, who could not
  see-gasped in horror and braced for a similar collision. But as people
  scrambled hastily to the opposite side of the road, the crowd parted and
  Havelock, his face set grimly, ordered the driver, "Don't stopt Keep
  goingl" Afterward, Havelock would defend his apparently callous action
  by explaining, "It all happened so fast, I wasn't sure of anything and
  figured it could be an ambush."
  Crawford Sloane, aware only that something unexpected was in progress,
  raised his head to peer out. At that precise moment, a TV camera already
  focused on the car caught Sloane's face in closeup, then stayed with the
  car as it sped from the accident scene. Viewers who later saw the
  videotape on air had no means of knowing that Sloane was pleading to go
 186        ARTHUR HAILEY

 back, but Havelock insisted, "There are police right there. They'll do
 whatever's needed."
  The Larchmont police did control the situation and several ambulances
  were rushed to the scene. When the toll was reekon~d, eight people had
  been injured-six with minor lacerations and bruises, two seriously. Of
  the seriously hurt, one man sustained a broken arm and crushed ribs while
  a young woman had a leg so badly mangled that it required amputation.
  The accident, though tragic, in other circumstances would not have gained
  wide attention. Because of the association with the Sloane family kidnap,
  it received national coverage and some of the blame appeared, by
  implication, to attach to Crawford Sloane.

  The researcher from CBA's London bureau, Teddy Cooper, had been flown in,
  as promised, on that morning's Concorde. He came directly to the task
  force offices, arriving shortly before 10 A.M., and reported first to
  Harry Partridge, then to Rita. The three went to the conference room
  where the group meeting was assembling.
  On the way in, Cooper met Crawford Sloane who also had arrived a few
  minutes earlier, still shaken from his experience at Larchmont.
  Cooper, a wiry slip of a man, radiated energy and confidence. His brown
  lank hair, worn longer than was now fashionable, framed a pale face that
  bore signs of adolescent acne. The effect was to make him seem even
  younger than his twenty-five years. Though a born-and-bred Londoner, he
  had been in the U.S. several times before and was familiar with New York.
  To Crawford Sloane, he declared, "Sorry to hear about your missus and
  family, Mister S, but cheer up! I'm here now! I'll have those buggers
  before you know it. It's what I'm good atl"
  Sloane, glancing at Partridge, raised his eyebrows inquiringly, as if to
  ask, Are you sure we want this bird?
  Partridge said dryly, "Modesty has never been Teddy's problem. We'll give
  him some rope and see what happens." The exchange seemed not to bother
  Cooper in the least.
  To Partridge, Cooper said, "First thing, Harry, is to check
            The Evening News     187

 out the reports. Then I'll suss out the scene of the crime. I want a word
 with the geezers who saw it happen-and I mean everyone. There's no point
 pissin' about. If I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it right."
  "You do it your way." Partridge remembered previous occasions when he had
  witnessed Cooper at work. "You'll be in charge of research here, with two
  assistants."
  T'he assistant researchers, a young man and woman who had been borrowed
  from another CBA project, were already in the conference room. While
  waiting for the meeting to begin, Partridge introduced them.
  Cooper shook hands and said, "Working with me will be a great experience
  for you, kids. Don't be nervous, though-I'm very informal. Just call me
  'your excellency,' and you need only salute first thing each morning."
  The researchers seemed amused by Cooper and the trio began discussing a
  "Sequence of Events" board, already in place in the conference room and
  occupying an entire wall. A standard procedure in task force reporting, it
  would record every known detail about the Sloane kidnapping, in proper
  sequence. On another wall was a second large board, headed "Miscellaneous."
  This would contain incidental intelligence, some of it speculation or
  rumor, whose sequence was irrelevant or not known. From time to time, as
  "miscellaneous" items developed, they would be transferred to the other
  board-all of it a research responsibility.
  The boards' purpose was twofold: first, to apprise everyone in the task
  force inner circle of all available information and new developments;
  second, to provide a focus for progress reviews and brainstorming sessions
  which could, and often did, provoke new ideas.

  Punctually at ten o'clock, Rita Abrams raised her voice, cutting across the
  general buzz of conversation. "All right, everyone! Let's get to work."
  She was seated at the head of a long table, Harry Partridge beside her.
  Leslie Chippingham arrived and took his place at
 188        ARTHUR HAILEY

 the table too. As he caught Rita's eye, they exchanged discreet smiles.
  Crawford Sloane seated himself at the far end. He did not expect to
  contribute to the discussion at this point and had confided to Partridge,
  "I feel helpless right now, like a loose nut."
  Also at the table were the three producers Rita had recruited. Norman
  Jaeger, oldest of the three, was a CBA veteran who had worked in every
  phase of news. Soft-spoken, imaginative and scholarly, he was a producer
  for the network's highly acclaimed magazine program, "Behind the
  Headlines." His abrupt temporary reassignment today pointed up the excep-
  tional resources of the task force.
  Next to Jaeger was Iris Everly, in her mid-twenties and a brightly shining
  star on the news production scene. Petite, pretty, a Columbia Journalism
  School graduate, she had a shrewd mind which functioned at lightning speed.
  When working to pursue an elusive news story, her reputation for toughness
  and cunning matched Rasputin's.
  Karl Owens, the third producer, was a workhorse who had gained his
  reputation through persistent, tireless plodding; sometimes his joint
  investigative work with correspondents succeeded after competitors had
  given up. Midway in age between Jaeger and Iris Everly and not as
  imaginative as either, Owens could be counted on for solidity and a
  thorough knowledge of his craft.
  In other seats at the table and immediately behind were Teddy Cooper and
  the two assistant researchers, a staff writer borrowed from the National
  Evening News, Minh Van Canh, who would be senior cameraman, and a woman
  secretary, appointed unit manager.
  "Okay, we all know why we're here," Rita said, opening the meeting with a
  businesslike tone. "What we'll discuss now is how to go about our work.
  First, I'll talk about organization. After that, Harry will direct us on
  the way we should march editorially."
  Rita paused and looked the length of the table at Crawford Sloane. "Crawf,
  we won't make speeches here. I don't think
            The Evening News     189

 any of us could without becoming emotional, and you have enough distress
 to carry without our adding to that burden. But I want to tell you, very
 simply and from all of us-for your sake, your family's, and our own
 because we care-we're going to do our damnedestl"
  From the other task force members there was an approving, sympathetic
  murmur.
  Sloane nodded twice, then managed to utter, "Thank you," his voice
  choked.
  "From here in," Rita said, "we shall operate on two levels -the long-term
  project and the daily breaking story. Norm," she continued, addressing
  the older producer, "you're to be in charge of long term."
  "Right."
  "Iris, you'll do the day-by-day, starting with a spot for the news
  tonight, which we'll discuss shortly."
  Iris Everly said crisply, "Got it, and the first thing I'll want is the
  video of that melee this morning outside Crawf's house."
  Sloane winced at the mention of the incident and glanced half pleadingly
  at Iris, though she took no notice.
  "You'll get it," Rita told her. "The tape's on the way in."
  To the third producer, Owens, Rita said, "Karl, you'll move between the
  two project sides as needed." She added, "And I'll be working closely
  with all three of you."
  Her attention turned to Cooper. "Teddy, I understand you want to go to
  Larchmont."
  Cooper looked up with a grin. "Yes, ma'am. To dig around and make like
  the famed Sherlock H." Turning his head, he added for the others, "At
  which I'm exceptionally good."
  "Teddy," Partridge said, speaking for the first time, "everyone in this
  room is exceptionally good. It's why they're here."
  Unabashed, Cooper beamed. "Then I oughta feel right at home."
  "After we finish this meeting," Rita advised him, "Minh will go to
  Larchmont, heading two fresh camera crews. You'll go with him, Teddy, and
  meet Bert Fisher who's a stringer for our local affiliate station. I've
  arranged it. Fisher was first to
 190        ARTHUR HAILEY

 break the story yesterday. He'll drive you around and introduce you to
 whoever you want to sec."
  "Wizard! I'll make a note o' that: Go fishing with Fisher."
  Norm Jaeger said softly to Karl Owens, "Before this assignment's over I may
  strangle that Limey."
  "Minh," Iris Everly said to the cameraman, "let's you and me talk, please,
  before you leave for Larchmont."
  Minh Van Canh, his square dark face impassive as usual, nodded.
  "For the time being that takes care of the nuts and bolts," Rita said.
  "Now, more important, there's editorial direction. Harry-over to you."
  "Our first objective, as I see it," Partridge began, "is to find out more
  about the kidnappers. Who are they? Where are they from? What are they
  aiming for? Of course, very soon they may tell us that themselves; however,
  we won't wait for it to happen. At this point I can't tell you how we'll
  learn the answers to those questions, except that together we will focus
  our brains on everything that's occurred so far, plus each new piece of
  information that comes in. Today I want everyone here to study all the data
  that we have, memorizing details. The boards will help." He motioned to the
  "Sequence of Events" and "Miscellaneous" boards, adding, "Both will be up
  to date later this morning.
  "After everyone has caught up I want us, separately and collectively, to
  keep picking over the pieces, worrying at them. If we do that, based on
  past experience something will come out. "
  Around the table the group listened attentively as Partridge continued.
  "One thing I'll tell you for sure. Somewhere, those peoplethe
  kidnappers-have left traces. Everybody leaves traces, no matter how
  carefully they try to hide them. The trick is to locate some." He nodded
  to Jaeger. "Concentrating on that will be your job, Norman."
  "Got it," Jaeger said.
  "Now the short term. Iris, about our spot for tonight's eve-            The Evening News     191

 ning news. I know you've been thinking. How do you see the bones? Do you
 have a framework?"
  She answered crisply. "If there's no fresh dramatic news like communication
  from the kidnappers, after saying there isn't, we may go to the snafn this
  morning outside Crawf's house. Then, since this will be the first full day
  since the event, a recap of yesterday. I've watched the tape of last night;
  it was a mishmash. Tonight we can do better, be more orderly. Also I'd like
  re-interviews with witnesses at Larchmont"-Iris consulted notes-"especially
  the old lady, Priscilla Rhea, who's video-rich. She and the others may have
  remembered something new."
  "What about reactions?" Jaeger asked. "As in Washington."
  Partridge answered. "A short bite only, from the President, I think. Maybe
  some citizen interviews if we have time."
 "But nothing from Capitol Hill?"
  "Maybe tomorrow," Partridge said. "Maybe never. Everyone on the Hill will
  want to get in the act." He motioned for Iris to continue.
  "To wrap up," she said, "we should do some analysis at the end n interview
  witb an authority on kidnapping."
 Partridge asked, "Anyone in mind?"
 "Not yet."
  Karl Owens volunteered, "I know of a guy. Name's Ralph Salerno, an ex-New
  York cop, lives at Naples, Florida. He lectures about crime to police
  forces all over and has written books. Knows a lot about kidnap. I've seen
  him on air. He's
 good."
  "Let's get him," Iris said, glancing at Partridge who nodded his approval.
  Les Chippingharn inte~ected, "Karl, we have an affiliate in the Naples
  area. Work through them if you can; otherwise fly Salerno to Miami."
  "And either way," Iris added, "book satellite time for Harry to do the
  interview."
 "I'll get onto it," Owens said, and made a note.
 After another fifteen minutes of discussion, Rita tapped the
 192        ARTHUR HAILEY

 table. "That'll do," she announced. "The rap is over. Real work begins.,,

  Amid the serious business, a marginal tempest.
  For research purposes, Harry Partridge had decided to interview Crawford
  Sloane. Partridge believed that Sloane, like many people who became
  involved in a complex episode, knew more than he realized and that skilled,
  persistent questioning might bring out new facts. Sloane had already agreed
  to the session.
  In the conference room after the meeting, as Partridge reminded Sloane of
  the arrangement, a voice behind them broke in, "If you don't mind, I'd like
  to sit in and listen. I may learn something too."
  Surprised, they turned. Confronting them was Special Agent Otis Havelock
  who had walked in as the meeting broke UP.
  "Well," Partridge said, "since you ask, I do mind."
  Rita Abrams queried Havelock, "Aren't you Mr. FBIT'
  He answered amiably, "You mean like 'Miss AmericaT My colleagues might not
  think so."
  "What I really mean," Rita said, "is you shouldn't be in here at all. This
  area is off limits to anyone except those working here."
  Havelock seemed surprised. "Part of my job is to protect Mr. Sloane.
  Besides, you're investigating the kidnapping. Right?"
  "Yes."
  "Then we have the same objective, to locate Mr. Sloane's family. So
  anything you people discover, such as what goes up there"-he gestured to
  the "Sequence of Events" board-"the FBI needs to know as well."
  Several others in the room, among them Leslie Chippingham, had fallen
  silent.
  "In that case," Rita said, "it should be a two-way deal. Can I send a
  correspondent, right now, over to the FBI's New York office to examine all
  your reports that have come in?"
            The Evening News     193

  Havelock shook his head. "I'm afraid that isn't possible. Some are
  confidential."
  "Exactly!"
  "Look, folks." Havelock, aware of the growing attention around the room,
  was clearly trying to be restrained. "I'm not sure you fully understand
  that we're dealing with a crime. Anyone with knowledge has a legal
  obligation to pass it on, in this instance to the FBI. Failing to do so
  could be a criminal offense."
  Rita, seldom long on patience, objected, "For chrissakes, we're not
  children! We do investigations all the time and know the score."
  Partridge added, "I should tell you, Mr. Havelock, that I've worked close
  to the FBI on several stories and your people are notorious for taking
  all the information they can get and giving back nothing."
  Havelock snapped, "The FBI isn't obliged to give anything back." His
  earlier restraint was gone. "We're a government agency with the power of
  the President and Congress behind us. What you people seem to be doing
  here is setting yourself up as competitors. Well, let me advise you that
  if anyone impedes the official investigation by withholding information,
  they're likely to face serious charges."
  Chippingham decided it was time to intervene.
  "Mr. Havelock," the news president said, "I assure you we are not people
  who break the law. However, we are free to do all the investigating we
  want and sometimes we're more successful at it than what you call the
  'official investigation.'
  "What's really involved here," Chippingharn continued, "is something
  called 'reporter privilege.' While I admit there are some gray areas,
  what's important is that reporters can investigate, then protect their
  sources unless a court rules otherwise. So you see, it would be an
  infringement on our freedom if we allowed you to have instant, total
  access to whatever comes in. Therefore I must tell you that while we're
  glad to have you here, there's a limit to your clearance and a line you
  may not cross-right there." He pointed to the conference-room doorway.
 194        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Well, sir," Havelock said, "I'm not sure I buy all that, and you won't
  mind if I discuss the whole matter with the Bureau."
  "Not in the least. I'm sure they'll tell you we're acting within our
  rights."
  What Chippingham did not say was that CBA, like any news organization,
  would make its own decisions about what to reveal and when, even if it
  meant ruffling some FBI feathers. He knew that most others in the News
  Division felt the same way. As to possible consequences, the network would
  have to deal with those as and if they happened.
  After Havelock had left to make a phone call, Chippingham told Rita, "Call
  the building superintendent. Ask for some keys to these offices and keep
  them locked."

  In the privacy of Partridge's office, he and Sloane began their interview
  with a tape recorder running. Partridge covered the now familiar ground,
  repeating earlier questions in more detailed ways, but nothing new emerged.
  At length, Partridge asked, "Is there anything in your mind, Crawf, even
  down in your subconscious that you might have to search for, something that
  could vaguely relate to what has happened? Is there the smallest incident
  you might have wondered about, then dismissed?"
  "You asked me that yesterday," Sloane answered thoughtfully. His attitude
  to Partridge had changed noticeably over the past twenty-four hours. In one
  sense it was friendlier. In another, Sloane was less wary of Partridge,
  even relying on him mentally in a way he never had before. Strangely,
  Sloane was almost deferential, as if seeing in Harry Partridge his greatest
  hope of getting Jessica, Nicky and his father back.
  "I know I did," Partridge said, "and you promised to think about it."
  "Well, I thought last night and maybe there is something, though I can't
  be sure, and it's only the vaguest feeling." Sloane spoke awkwardly. He was
  never comfortable with hazy, unformed ideas.
  Partridge urged, "Keep talking."
  "I think, before this happened, I might have had a feeling of
            The Evening News     195

 being followed. Of course, it could be I'm thinking this way after
 discovering there was a watch on the house . . ."
  "Forget that. So you think you were followed. Where and when?"
  "That's the trouble. It's so hazy I could have made it up, maybe feeling
  I had to find something."
  "Do you think you made it up?"
  Sloane hesitated. "No, I don't."
  "Give me more details."
  "I've a feeling I might have been followed sometimes while driving home.
  Also I have an instinct, and it's damned elusive, that someone may have
  been observing me here, inside CBA News~-someone who should not have been
  here."
  "All this over how long a period?"
  "Maybe a month?" Sloane threw up his hands. "I simply can't be sure I'm
  not inventing. In any case, what difference does it make?"
  "I don't know," Partridge said. "But I'll talk it over with the others."
  Afterward, Partridge typed out a summary of the Sloane interview and
  pinned it on the conference room "Miscellaneous" board. Then, back in his
  office, he began the procedure known to all journalists as "working the
  phones."
  Open in front of him was his private "blue book"-a catalog of people he
  knew worldwide who had been useful before and might be again. It also
  included others he had helped by supplying information when they, in
  turn, needed it. The news business was full of debits and credits; at
  times like this, credits were called in. Also helpful was that most
  people were flattered to be sought after by TV news.
  The night before, referring to the blue book, Partridge had made a list
  of those he would call today. The names beside him now included contacts
  in the Justice Department, White House, State Department, CIA,
  Immigration, Congress, several foreign embassies, New York's Police
  Department, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Ottawa, Mexico's
  Judicial Police, an author of real-life crime books, and a lawyer with
  organized crime clients.
 196        ARTHUR BAILEY

  The ensuing phone conversations were mostly low-key and began, "Hi, this
  is Harry Partridge. We haven't been in touch for a while. Just called to
  see how life is treating you." The personal mode continued with inquiries
  about wives or husbands, lovers, children--Partridge kept notes of those
  names too-then eased into the current scene. "I'm working on the Sloane
  kidnapping. I wonder if you've heard any rumbles, or have ideas of your
  own."
  Sometimes the questions were more specific. Have you heard speculation on
  who might be responsible? Do you think terrorist involvement is a
  possibility,- if so, from where? Are any rumors floating, even wild ones?
  Will you ask around and call me back if you hear anything?
  It was standard practice, at times tedious and always requiring patience.
  Sometimes it produced results, occasionally delayed ones, often none. From
  today's telephoning nothing specific emerged, though the most interesting
  conversation, Partridge decided afterward, was with the organized crime
  lawyer.
  A year ago Partridge had done him a favor--or so the lawyer thought. The
  man's daughter, on a college trip to Venezuela, had been part of a messy
  drug orgy that made U.S. national news. Eight students were involved; two
  had died. Through a Caracas agency, CBA News had obtained exclusive
  on-the-spot pictures, with close-ups of participants-the lawyer's daughter
  among them-being arrested by police. Partridge, who was in Argentina, flew
  north to cover the story.
  In New York, the girl's father somehow learned about the coverage, also the
  pictures, and tracked Partridge down by phone. He pleaded with Partridge
  not to use his daughter's name or image, arguing she was the youngest of
  the group, had never been in trouble before, and national exposure would
  ruin her life.
  Partridge had by that time seen the pictures; he knew about the girl and
  had decided not to use her in his story. Ever. so, keeping his options
  open, he merely promised to do the best he could.
  Later, when it became clear that CBA had made no direct
            The Evening News     197

 reference to the girl, the lawyer sent Partridge a check for a thousand
 dollars. Partridge returned the check with a polite note, and since then
 the two had not communicated.
  Today, aftei listening to Partridge's casual opener, the lawyer responded
  bluntly, "I owe you. Now you want something. Tell me what it is."
  Partridge explained.
  "I haven't heard anything, except on TV," the lawyer said, "and I'm sure
  as I can be that none of my clients are involved. It isn't the kind of
  thing they'd touch. Sometimes, though, they get to hear about things that
  others don't. Over the next few days I'll do some discreet asking around.
  If I find out anything I'll call you."
  Partridge had a feeling that he would.
  At the end of an hour, when he had covered half the names on his list,
  Partridge took a break and went to the conference room to pour himself
  coffee. Returning, he did what almost everyone in TV news did daily-went
  through the New York Times and Washington Post. It always surprised
  visitors to TV news centers to see how many copies of those newspapers
  were around. The fact was, despite TV's own news achievements, a subtle,
  ingrained attitude persisted that nothing was really news until printed
  in the Times or Post.
  The strong voice of Chuck Insen broke into Partridge's reading.
  "I bring tonight's lineup, Harry," the executive producer said, entering
  the office. "The word is, we'll do a split-anchor news. You're to be half
  the horse."
  "Rear end or front?"
  Insen smiled faintly. "Which of us ever knows? Anyway, from tonight on,
  you'll anchor anything to do with the Sloane family kidnap which-unless
  the President gets shot before air time-will be our lead again. Crawf
  will anchor the rest of the news as usual, the point being that all of
  us feel we're damned if a bunch of thugs, whoever they are, are going to
  dictate how life goes on at CBA."
  "Fine with me," Partridge said. "I presume it is with Crawf."
 198        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Frankly, it was Crawf's idea. Like any king he feels insecure if off his
  throne too long. Besides which, his staying invisible would achieve
  nothing. Oh, another thing-right at the end of the news, Crawf will say
  a few spontaneous words thanking those who've sent messages about his
  family, or otherwise care."
 "Spontaneous?"
 "Of course. We have. three writers toiling over them now."
  Amused, despite the circurnstances, Partridge said, "You two are managing
  to agree for the time being."
  Insen nodded. "We've declared an unspoken armistice until all this is
  over."
 "And afterward?"
 "Let's wait and see."

 Almost a rncrith earlier, soon after Miguel hz-0, entered the United
 States illegally, he had attempted to buy funeral caskets to be used for
 aansporing his two intended kidpap victims to Peru. The plan had been
 developed well before his arrival on the scene and Miguel assumed their
 purchast could he accomplished quickly and quictly-a simple matter. He
 discovered it was not.
  He had gone to a funeral home in Brooklyn, wanting to spread out his
  activities rather than confine them to the Little Colombia area of
  Queens, his operating center at the time. The establishment he chosc was
  near Prospect Park-an elegant white building labeled "Field's," with a
  spacious parking lot.
  Miguel entered through heavy oak doors which opened onto a 1cbby with
  golden-beige carpeting, tall potted plants and paintings of peaceful
  landscapes. Inside he was greeted by a decorous middle-aged man wearing
  a black jacket with a white
            The Evening News     199

 carnation, black-and-gray-striped trousers, white shirt and a dark tie.
  "Good morning, sir," the sartorial paragon said. "I am Mr. Field. How can
  I be of service?"
  Miguel had rehearsed what he would say. "I have two elderly parents who
  wish certain planning to be done about their eventual . . . er, passing."
  With an inclination of his head, Field conveyed approval and sympathy.
  "I understand, sir. Many older people, at the sunset of their years, wish
  to be comfortable and assured about their future."
  "Exactly. Now, what my parents would like
  "Excuse me, sir. It might be more suitable if we stepped into my office."
  "Very well."
  Field led the way. Perhaps intentionally, they passed several salon-type
  rooms with settees and armchairs, one with rows of chairs prepared for
  a service. In each room was a corpse, gilded with cosmetics and propped
  on a frilly pillow in its open casket. Miguel noticed a few visitors, but
  some rooms were empty.
  The office was at the end of a corridor, discreetly hidden. On the walls
  were framed diplomas, much as in a doctor's office, except that one was
  for "beautification" of dead bodies (it was adorned with purple ribbons),
  and another for embalming. At Field's gesture, Miguel took a chair.
  "May I ask your name, sir."
  "Novack," Miguel lied.
  "Well, Mr. Novack, to begin we should discuss the overall arrangements.
  Do you or your parents have a cemetery plot chosen and obtained?"
  "Well, no."
  "Then that must be our first consideration. We ought to get that for you
  right away because it's becoming difficult to obtain a plot, especially
  a choice one. Unless, of course, you are considering cremation."
  Miguel, curbing his impatience, shook his head. "No. But what I really
  want to talk about . . . 11
  "Then there's the question of your parents' religion. What
 200        ARTHUR DAILEY

 service will be required? And there are other decisions to be made.
 Perhaps you would care to study this."
  Field passed over what resembled an elaborate restaurant menu. It
  included a long list of separate items and costs such as, "Bathing,
  disinfecting, handling and cosmetizing of deceased-$250," "Special care
  for autopsied cases-$125" and "Clerical assistance in the completion of
  various forms-$ 100. " A "full traditional service" at $5,900 included,
  among other things, a $30 crucifix placed in the deceased's hands. A
  casket was extra, ranging up to $20,600.
  "It's the caskets I came to discuss," Miguel said.
  "Certainly." Field stood up. "Please come with me."
  This time he led the way down a stairway to a basement. They entered a
  display room where the carpeting was red and Field went first to the
  $20,600 casket. "This is our very best. It's of 18-gauge steel, has three
  covers-glass, brass and quilted brass-and will last and last and last."
  Elaborate ornaments adorned the casket's exterior. The inside was lined
  with lavender velvet.
  "Maybe something a little simpler," Miguel told him.
  They settled on two caskets, one smaller than the other, priced at $2,300
  and $1,900. "My mother is a tiny lady," Miguel explained. About the size
  of an eleven-year-old boy, he thought.
  Miguel's curiosity had been piqued by several plain, simple boxes. When
  asked about them, Field explained, "They are for religious Jews who
  require simplicity. The boxes have two holes in the bottom, the theory
  being 'earth to earth.' You are not Jewish?" When Miguel shook his head,
  Field confided, "Frankly, that is not the kind of repository I would
  choose for my own loved ones."
  They went back to the office where Field said, "Now I suggest we go over
  the other matters. The burial plot first."
  "That's not necessary," Miguel said. "What I would like to do is pay for
  the caskets and take them."
  Field looked shocked. "That isn't possible."
  "Why not?"
  "It simply isn't done that way."
            The Evening News     201

  "Perhaps I should have explained." Miguel was beginning to see that this
  might not be as simple as expected. "What my parents would like is to
  have their caskets now, in their present home, placing them where they
  can be seen each day. That way they can get used, so to speak, to their
  future accommodation."
  Field appeared devastated. "We couldn't possibly do that. What we arrange
  here is-if I may use that word-a 'package.' It would be possible for your
  parents to come to view the caskets they will eventually rest in. But
  after that we would insist on keeping them until the need arose."
  "Couldn't you . . ."
  "No~ sir, absolutely not."
  Miguel had sensed the other man losing interest, even possibly becoming
  suspicious.
  "Very well. I'll think about it and perhaps come back."
  Field escorted Miguel out. Miguel had not the slightest intention of
  coming back. As it was, he knew he'd already left too strong an
  impression.
  The next day he tried two more funeral homes farther afield, making his
  inquiries shorter. But the response was the same. No one would sell him
  caskets separate from "the package.,,
  At that point Miguel decided the attempt to move away from his operating
  center had been a mistake and he returned to Queens and his Little
  Colombia contacts. After a few days' delay they sent him to a small, drab
  funeral home in Astoria, not far from Jackson Heights. There he met
  Alberto Godoy.
  In terms of funeral establishments, Godoy's was to Field's what K mart
  was to Tiffany-geared to a down-scale clientele. Not only that, but
  shabbiness prevailed, extending to the proprietor himself.
  Godoy was obese, bald, with nicotine-stained fingers and the bloated
  features of a heavy drinker. Food stains were conspicuous on his
  undertaker's uniform of black coat and graystriped pants. His voice was
  raspy and punctuated by a smoker's cough. During the meeting with Miguel,
  which began in Godoy's tiny, cluttered office, he smoked three
  cigarettes, lighting one from another.
 202        ARTHUR BAILEY

  "My name is Novack, and I've come for information," Miguel had said.
  Godoy nodded, "Yes, I know."
  "I have two elderly parents
  "Oh, is that the line?"
  Miguel persisted, repeating his earlier story while Godoy listened with a
  mixture of boredom and disbelief. At the end his only question was, "How
  will you pay?"
  "Cash.,,

  Godoy became a shade more friendly. "This way."
  Once more a basement provided the setting for sample caskets, though here
  the carpeting was dull brown and worn, with the choices fewer than at
  Field's. Expeditiously Miguel found two suitable caskets, one of average
  size, the other smaller.
  Godoy announced, "For the regular size, three thousand dollars. For the
  child's, twenty-five hundred."
  Though the "child" reference ran counter to his story and was dangerously
  near the truth, Miguel ignored it. Also, while convinced the $5,500 total
  was at least twice the normal price, he agreed to it without discussion.
  He had brought cash and paid in hundred-dollar bills. Godoy asked for
  another $454 for New York City sales tax which Miguel added, though he
  doubted that the city's coffers would ever see the money.
  Miguel backed his recently acquired GMC truck to a loading dock where,
  under Godoy's watchful supervision, the caskets were wheeled aboard. Miguel
  then took them to the safe house where they were stored until their later
  transfer to Hackensack.
  Now, almost a month later, he had returned to Alberto Godoy's establishment
  in search of one more casket.

  Miguel was uneasy about going back because of the risks involved. He
  remembered Godoy's offhand reference to the second casket being for a
  child. So was there a chance, Miguel wondered, that Godoy had connected
  yesterday's kidnapping of a woman and boy with the earlier purchase of the
  caskets? It wasn't likely, but one reason Miguel had survived so long as
  a terrorist was by weighing every possibility. However, having
            The Evening News     203

 decided to transport the third captive to Peru, at this point there was no
 alternative to Godoy. The risk had to be taken.
  Slightly more than an hour after leaving the United Nations, Miguel
  instructed Luis to park their hearse a block from the Godoy Funeral Home.
  Again Miguel used his umbrella in the pouring rain.
  Inside the funeral home a woman receptionist spoke to Godoy via an
  intercom, then directed Miguel to the proprietor's office.
  From behind a cloud of cigarette smoke the fat man regarded Miguel warily.
  "So it's you again. Your friends didn't tell me you were coming."
  "No one knew.!'
  "What do you want?" Whatever Godoy's motivations in doing business with
  Miguel in the first place, it was clear he now had reservations.
  "I've been asked to do a favor for an elderly friend. He's seen the caskets
  I bought for my parents, likes the idea, and asked if I would . . ."
  "Aw, cut it out!" An old-fashioned cuspidor was beside Godoy's desk.
  Removing his cigarette, he spat into it. "Listen, mister, don't waste time
  with what both of us know is a potful of crap. I said what is it you
  want?9'
  "One casket. To be paid for as before."
  Godoy peered forward through shifty eyes. "I run a business here. Sure,
  sometimes I oblige your friends; they do the same for me. But what I want
  to know from you is: Am I setting myself up to land in some shit?"
  "There'll be no shit. Not if you cooperate." Miguel let his own voice take
  on menace and it had an effect.
  "All right, you got it," Godoy said, his tone more moderate. "But since
  last time the price has gone up. For that same adult model, four thousand."
  Without speaking, Miguel opened the pressboard wallet Jos6 Antonio
  Salaverry had given him and began counting hundred-dollar bills. He handed
  forty to Godoy who said, "Plus two hundred 'n' fifty New York tax."
  Re-tying the tape of the the pressboard wallet, Miguel told
 204        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Godoy, "You and New York go fuck yourselves." Then: "I have transport
 outside. Get the casket to your loading dock."
  On the dock, Godoy was mildly surprised to see a hearse appear. The two
  previous caskets, he remembered, had been taken away in a truck. Still
  suspicious of his visitor, Godoy memorized the numbers and letters on the
  hearse's New York license plate and, when back in his office, wrote them
  down, though not really knowing why. He pushed the piece of scratch paper
  into a drawer and promptly forgot it.

  Despite a belief that he had been involved in something it would be safer
  not to know more about, Godoy smiled as he put away the four thousand
  dollars in an office safe. Some of the previous cash his recent visitor had
  paid a month ago was also in the safe, and not only did Godoy have no
  intention of paying New York sales tax on either transaction, he did not
  intend to declare it on his tax returns either. Juggling his business
  inventory to make the three caskets disappear from his books would be easy.
  The thought so cheered him that he decided to do what he often did-go to
  a nearby bar for a drink.
  Several of Godoy's cronies at the bar welcomed him. A short time later,
  mellowed by three Jack Daniel's whiskeys, he related to the group how some
  punk had bought two caskets and put them-so he said-in his parents' home,
  ready for the old folks to croak, and then come back for another casket,
  all of it like he was buying chairs or saucepans.
  As the others roared with laughter, Godoy further confided that he'd
  outsmarted the dumb punk by charging three times the caskets' regular
  price. At that, one of his friends added a cheer to the laughter, prompting
  Godoy-all his worry now dissipated-to order another round.
  Among those at the bar was a former Colombian, now a U.S. resident, who
  wrote a column for an obscure Spanishlanguage weekly published in Queens.
  On the back of an envelope, using a stub of pencil, the man wrote the gist
  of Godoy's story, translating it to Spanish as he did. It would make a good
  little item, he thought, for next week's column.
 The Evening News   205

 At CBA News it had been a frantic day, especially for the Sloane kidnap task
 force.
  Producing a comprehensive report on the kidnapping for the National Evening
  News continued to be the focus of activity, though other events, some
  major, were happening elsewhere in the world.
  The kidnap story had been allotted five and a half minutes -an
  extraordinary duration in a business where fifteen-second segments were
  fiercely fought over. As a result, almost the entire effort of the task
  force was devoted to that day's production, leaving virtually no time for
  longer-term planning or reflection.
  With Harry Partridge anchoring the opening portion of the news, the evening
  broadcast began:

   "After thirty-six hours of agonized waiting there is no fresh news about
   the family of CBA anchorman Crawford Sloane, whose wife, young son and
   father were kidnapped yesterday morning in Larchmont, New York The where-
   abouts of Mrs. Jessica Sloane, eleven-year-old Nicholas, and Mr. Angus
   Sloane remain unknown. "

  As each name was mentioned, a still photo appeared over Partridge's
  shoulder.

   "Also unknown are the identities, objectives, or affiliations of the
   kidnappers.

  A fast cut to Crawford Sloane's troubled face filling the screen. Sloane's
  distraught voice pleaded, ""oever you are,
 206        ARTHUR HAILEY

 wherever you are, for god's sake make yourse~f knownl Let us hearfrom youl"
  Partridge's voice returned over an exterior shot of FBI headquarters, the
  J. Edgar Hoover Building in Washington. ""ile the FBI, now in charge of the
  investigation, is withholding comment . . - "
  Briefly the scene changed to the FBI press office and a spokesman saying,
  "At this moment it would not be helpful to make any statement. "
Partridge again:privately, FBI officials admit no
progress has been made.
  "Since yesterday an outpouring of concern and anger have come from highest
  levels - - - "
  A dissolve to the White House press room, the President speaking: "Such
  evil has no place in America. The criminals will be hounded down and
  punished. "
  Partridge: ". . . and in humbler places
  From Pittsburgh, a hard-hatted black steelworker, his face shining in the
  light from a fiery furnace: "I'm ashamed something like this could happen
  in my country. "
  In a bright Topeka kitchen, a white housewife: "I cannot understand why no
  one foresaw what's happened and took precautions. My heart goes out to
  Crawford. " Gesturing to a TV set: "In this house he's like family. "
  Seated at her classroom desk in California, a young, softvoiced Eurasian
  girl: "I'm worried about Nicholas Sloane. It isn't fair they took him. "

  During the day, camera crews of CBA and affiliated stations across the
  country had sought public reactions. The network had viewed fifty and
  selected those three.

  The scene shifted to the Sloane house at Larchmont that morning in the
  rain-a long shot of the waiting crowd in the street, then, moving in close,
  a pan across their faces. Over the image, Partridge's voice: "In part
  because of intense public interest, today new tragedy intruded. "
  The voice-over continued, alternating with natural sound,
            The Evening News     207

 more pictures: emergence of the two unmarked FBI cars from the driveway
 . . . the surge of onlookers into the first car's path . . . the first car
 braking, then out of control and sliding a shriek of tires followed by
 screams from the injured . . . others frantically scrambling clear of the
 second car, which then continued on . . . a close-up of Crawford Sloane's
 bewildered face . . . the second car speeding away.
  During editing, some objections had been raised about including the shots
  of Sloane's face and the disappearing car. Sloane himself claimed, "It
  gives a wrong impression."
  But Iris Everly, who put most of the spot together, working through the
  day with one of CBA's best tape editors, Bob Watson, argued for its
  inclusion and won. "Whether Crawf likes it or not." she pointed out,
  "it's news and we should stay objective. Also, we're looking at the only
  piece of action since yesterday." Rita and Partridge had supported Iris.

  The tempo changed to a skillful recap of the previous day. It began with
  Priscilla Rhea, the frail and elderly ex-schoolteacher, again describing
  the brutal seizure of Jessica, Nicky and. Angus Sloane outside the
  Larchmont supermarket.

  Minh Van Canh had used his camera creatively, going in for an extreme
  close-up of Miss Rhea's face. It showed the deep lines of age with every
  wrinkle in sharp relief, but also brought out her intelligence and sturdy
  character. Minh had coaxed her with geride questions, an occasionally
  used procedure. When no correspondent was present, experienced camera
  people sometirnes asked questions of those they were photographing. The
  questions were erased later from the audio recording, but the answers
  remained for use as statements.

  After describing the struggle on the parking lot and the Nissan van's
  departure, Miss Rhea said of the kidnappers, her voice rising, "They were
  brutal men, beasts, savagesl"
  Next, the Larehmont police chief confirmed that there had been no
  breakthrough in the case and the kidnappers had not been heard from.
 208        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Following the recap was an interview with the criminologist, Ralph Salerno.

  With Salerno in a Miami studio and Harry Partridge in New York, the
  interview had been recorded via satellite late that afternoon. The
  recommendation by Karl Owens proved a good one and Salerno, an
  authoritative figure, was eloquent and well informed. He so impressed Rita
  Abrams that she arranged for him to be available exclusively to CBA for the
  duration of the crisis. He would be paid $1,000 for each broadcast appear-
  ance, with a minimum guarantee of four.
  Although TV networks claimed not to pay for news interviews-a statement not
  always true-a consultant fee was different and acceptable.

   "The progress of investigation after any efficiently executed kidnap, "
   Ralph Salerno declared, "depends on hearing from the kidnappers. Unless
   and until that happens, there is usually a stalemate. "
   Answering a question by Partridge, he continued: "The FBI has a high
   success ratio in kidnappings; they solve ninety-two percent of cases. But
   ifyou look carefully at who was caught and how, you'llfind most solutions
   depended on first hearingfrom the kidnappers, then trapping them during
   negotiations or payment of a ransom. "
   Partridge prompted, "So the likelihood is that not much will happen until
   these kidnappers are heardfrom.
   "Exactly. 11

  A final statement in the special news segment was made by CBA's corporate
  president, Margot Lloyd-Mason.

  It had been Leslie Chippingham's idea to include Margot. Soon after
  breaking into the network with the kidnap bulletin yesterday, he reported
  to her by telephone and did so again this morning. Her reaction had, on the
  whole, been sympathetic and after their first conversation she telephoned
  Crawford Sloane, expressing hope that his family would be recovered
            The Evening News     209

 quickly. While speaking with the news president, though, she added two
 caveats.
  "Part of the reason something like this happens is that networks have
  misguidedly let anchor people become larger than life, so the public thinks
  of them as something extra-special, almost gods." She did not elaborate on
  how a network could control public concepts, even if it wished, and for his
  part, Chippingharn saw no point in arguing the obvious.
  The other proviso concerned the kidnap task force.
  "I don't want anyone-and that principally means you," Margot Lloyd-Mason
  asserted, "going wild about spending money. You should be able to do
  whatever is necessary within the existing news budget."
  Chippingham said doubtfully, "I'm not so sure of that."
  "Then I'll give you a firm ruling. No activity exceeding budget is to be
  embarked on without my advance approval. Is that clear?"
  Chippingham wondered whether the woman had blood in her veins or ice?
  Aloud, he answered, "Yes, Margot, it's clear, though I'll remind you that
  our ratings for the National Evening News shot up last night and I expect
  that to continue while this crisis lasts."
  "Which merely goes to show," she answered coolly, "that unfortunate events
  can be turned to profit."
  While involving the corporate president in this evening's broadcast seemed
  appropriate, Chippingham also hoped it might soften her attitude toward
  some special expenditures which, in his view, would be needed.
  On air, Margot spoke with authority, using words scripted for her but with
  revisions of her own.

   "I am speaking for all the people of this network and our parent
   company, Globanic Industries, " Margot said, "when I declare that our
   total resources are available in the search for the missing members of
   the Sloane family. For all of us, in fact, it is a family affair.
   "We deplore what has happened. We urge law enforce- 210        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ment agencies to continue their strongest efforts to bring the
 criminals to justice. We hope to see our friend and colleague, Crawford
 Sloane, united with his wife, son andfather in the shortest possible
 time. "

  In the original draft there had been no reference to Globanic Industries.
  When Margot proposed it while reviewing her script in the privacy of
  Chippingham's office, he advised, "I wouldn't do that. The public has an
  image of CBA as an entity, a piece of Americana. Bringing in Globanic's
  name makes that image cloudy, to no one's advantage."
  "What you'd like to pretend," Margot retorted, "is that CBA is some kind
  of crown jewel, and independent. Well, it's neither. Over at Globanic
  they're more apt to think of CBA as a pimple on their ass. The reference
  stays in. What you can take out, d propos Sloane, are those words, 'our
  friend and colleague.' Kidnap or not, I might choke on them."
  Chippingham suggested dryly, "How about a trade-off? I'll promise to love
  Globanic if, for one broadcast, you'll be Crawford's friend."
  For once, Margot laughed aloud. "Shit, yes."

  The lack of progress after a frantic first day for the task force did not
  surprise Harry Partridge. He had been involved in similar projects in the
  past and knew it took members of any new team at least a day to orient
  themselves. Just the same, it was imperative there be no more delay in
  formulating plans.
  "Let's have a working dinner," he told Rita during the afternoon.
  She then arranged for the six principals in the task forcePartridge,
  Rita, Jaeger, Iris, Owens, Cooper-to meet for Chinese food immediately
  after the National Evening News. Rita chose Shun Lee West on West
  Sixty-fifth, near Lincoln Center, a favorite with TV news folk. In making
  the reservation she told the maltre d', Andy Yeung, "Don't bother us with
  menus. You order a good meal and give us a table out of the mainstream,
  where we can talk."
            The Evening News     211

  During a commercial that followed the five-minute kidnap report at the top
  of the National Evening News, Partridge eased out of the anchor desk chair
  and Crawford Sloane moved in. As he did, Sloane gripped Partridge's arm and
  murmured, "Thank you, Harry-for everything."
  "Some of us will be working tonight," Partridge assured him, "trying to
  come up with ideas."
  "I know. I'm grateful." Routinely, Sloane skimmed through the scripts an
  assistant placed in front of him and, watching, Partridge was shocked by
  the other man's appearance. Not even makeup could conceal ravages the past
  day and a half had wrought. Sloane's cheeks appeared hollow, there were
  bags beneath his eyes, which were red-rimmed; perhaps, Partridge thought,
  he had been crying in private.
  "Are you okay?" he whispered. "Sure you want to do this?"
  Sloane nodded. "Those bastards won't put me out of action."
  The studio floor manager called out, "Fifteen seconds."
  Partridge moved from camera range, then quietly left the news studio.
  Outside he watched a monitor until satisfied that Sloane would make it
  through to the end of the news. Then he left by taxi for Shun Lee West.

  Their table was at the rear of the restaurant in a relatively quiet comer.
  Near the end of the first course-a steaming, delicately flavored winter
  melon soup-Partridge addressed Cooper. The young Englishman had spent most
  of the day in Larchmont, talking with everyone who had knowledge of the
  kidnapping, including the local police. He had returned to task force head-
  quarters in the late afternoon.
  "Teddy, let's hear your impressions so far, and any ideas on where we go
  from here?"
  Cooper pushed his empty soup dish away and wiped his lips. He opened a
  well-worn exercise book and answered, "Okay, impressions first."
  The pages in front of him were crowded with scribbled notes.
 212        ARTHUR BAILEY

  "First off, it was a pro job all the way. The blokes who put this
  together didn't muck about. They planned it like a railway timetable and
  made sure they left no evidence behind. Secondly, these were pros who had
  lotsa money."
  Norman Jaeger asked, "How do you know?"
  "Hopin' you'd ask." Cooper grinned as he looked around the table. "For
  one thing, everything suggests that whoever did the snatch kept a close
  eye on the house for a long time before they made their move. You've
  beard about the neighbors who now say they saw the motors outside the
  Sloane house, and once or twice vans, and thought the people in 'em were
  protecting Mr. S, not spying on him? Well, five people've reported that
  since yesterday; today I talked to four. They all said they saw those
  motors on and off for three weeks, maybe a month. Then we've got to
  consider Mr. S, who now believes he was followed. "
  Cooper glanced at Partridge. "Harry, I read your notes on the info board
  and I believe Mr. S was right; he was trailed. I've a theory about that."
  While they were talking, fresh dishes had appearedsaut6ed shrimp with
  peppers, fried prawns, snow peas, fried rice. There was a pause to enjoy
  the hot food, then Rita urged, "How about that theory, Teddy?"
  "Okay. Mr. S is a big TV star; he's used to being a public figure,
  watched wherever he goes, and that becomes a way of life. So as a sort
  of counterbalance he builds up a subconscious feeling of invisibility.
  He's not going to let stares from strangers, the turning heads or
  pointing fingers bother him. That's why he may have screened out the
  notion of being followedwhich I reckon he was, because it fits in with
  full-blown reconnaissance of the whole Sloane family."
  "Even if that's true," Karl Owens asked, "where does it get us?"
  Partridge said, "It helps us build a picture of the kidnappers. Keep
  going, Teddy."
  "Okay, so it cost the snatchers to take all that time and do all that
  spying. The same thing goes for all those motors they used; also a van,
  maybe two, and the Nissan van yesterday-a
            The Evening News     213

 regular fleet. And there's something special about those motors."
  Cooper turned a notebook page. "The Larchmont cops let me see those motor
  reports. Some interesting things come out.
  "Now, when somebody sees a car, they may not remember much about it, but
  one thing most of us do remember is the color. Well, those people who
  reported seeing the motors described eight different colorx So I asked
  myself. Did the gang really have eight different cars?"
  "They could have," Iris Everly said, "if they were rental cars.,,
  Cooper shook his head. "Not our lads; they'd be too cagey. They'd know
  that renting motors means identification--drivers' licenses, credit
  cards. Also, rental cars have license plates which can be traced."
  "So you've another theory," Iris prompted. "Right?"
  "Right. What I think happened is the snatchers most probably had three
  motors and resprayed them, say once a week, hoping to lessen the chances
  of being noticed. Okay, it worked. Only thing was, in the respraying
  these blokes made a stupid mistake."
  More food had arrived-two heaped platters of Peking duck. The others
  reached out with chopsticks and ate hungrily while Cooper continued.
  "Let's go back a mo. One of those Larchmont neighbors noticed more than
  the others about these motors. That's because he's in the motor insurance
  business, knows makes and models."
  Jaeger interrupted. "All this is interesting, my British friend, but if
  you want any of this delicious duck you'd best dive in before us greedy
  Yanks finish it."
  "International duck!" Cooper joined with relish in the eating, then
  resumed.
  "Anyway, this insurance geezer noticed the makes and models of the motors
  and he says he saw three, no more-a Ford Tempo, a Chevy Celebrity and a
  Plymouth Reliant, all this year's models, and he remembers some of the
  colors."
  Partridge asked, "So how do you figure the repainting?"
 214        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "This afternoon," Cooper said, "your mate, Bert Fisher, phoned some car
  dealers for me. What came out was that some of the colors people say they
  saw aren't available for those models. For instance, the insurance
  geezer, he said he saw a yellow Ford Tempo, but there's no such color
  made. Same goes for a blue Plymouth Reliant. Someone else described a
  green motor, yet not one of those three makes comes in green."
  Owens said thoughtfully, "You may be on to something. It's possible, of
  course, that one car could have been in an accident and repainted, but
  not likely three."
  "Something else about that," Jaeger put in, "is that when auto body shops
  repaint cars, they mostly do it in manufacturer's colors. Unless somebody
  asks for an offbeat shade."
  "Which wouldn't be likely," Iris contributed, "remembering what Teddy
  said just now about the people we're looking for being savvy. They'd want
  to be inconspicuous, not the other way."
  "All of which I agree with, folks," Cooper said, "and it leads to the
  thought that the mob we're looking for did the spray jobs themselves, not
  giving much thought to current colors, perhaps riot even knowing about
  them."
  Partridge said doubtfully, "That's moving pretty far into supposition
  country."
  It was Rita who asked, "But is it? Let me remind you of what Teddy
  pointed out earlier. That the people we're talking about practically ran
  a fleet of vehicles-at least three cars, one truck and maybe two, a
  Nissan passenger van for the kidnap . . . Anyway, five we know of. Now,
  it makes sense that they'd want to keep them together in one place, which
  would have to be sizable. So isn't it likely it would be somewhere big
  enough to include a paint shop?"
  "An operating headquarters is what you mean," Jaeger said. He turned to
  Teddy; an increasing respect had replaced the older man's skepticism of
  the morning. "Isn't that what you're talking about? Where you're leading
  us?"
  "Yep." Cooper beamed. "Sure am."
  Their meal--eventually to include eight courses-had continued. Now before
  the group was saut6ed lobster with ginger
            The Evening News     215

 and scallions. They reached for portions thoughtfully, concentrating on what
 had just been said.
  "An operating center," Rita mused. "Maybe for the people involved, whoever
  they are, as well as vehicles. We know from the old lady's description
  there were either four or five men at the kidnap scene. There could be
  others offstage. Wouldn't it make sense for everything to ic together?"
  "Including the hostages," Jaeger added.
  "If we assume all that," Partridge said, "and okay, let's do it for the
  moment, obviously the next question is where?"
  "We don't know, of course," Cooper said, "but some hard thinking might
  suggest the kind of place it could be; also, maybe, how far it was--or
  is-from Larchmont."
  With amusement, Iris queried, "Hard thinking you've already done?"
  "Well," Cooper said, "since you ask
  "Quit showing off, Teddy," Partridge said sharply. "Get to the point."
  Cooper responded, unperturbed, "I tried to think the way a snatcher would
  plan. So I asked the question: After the snatch, when I'd grabbed what I
  wanted, what would I want next?"
  "How's this for an answer?" Rita said. "To be safe from pursuit; therefore
  go like hell and get under cover quickly."
  Cooper smacked his palms together. "Bleedin' right! And where better to be
  under cover than at that HQ hangout?"
  Owens asked, "Am I reading you right? You're suggesting the HQ wasn't far
  away?"
  "Here's how I see it," Cooper said. "First off, it needs to be well clear
  of Larchmont; staying anywhere in the area would be too risky. But, second,
  it shouldn't be too far. The snatchers would know that in the shortest
  time, maybe minutes, there'd be an alarm and police crawling all over the
  place. Therefore they'd have calculated how much time they'd got."
  Rita asked, "If you're still inside their minds, how much time?"
  "Guessing, I'd say half an hour. Even that long would be a bit iffy, but
  they'd have to chance it to get far enough away."
 216        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Owens said slowly, "Translating that to milesremem
 beringthearea . . . I'dsaytwenty-five."
  "Just what I figured." Cooper produced a folded New York area map and
  opened it. On the map, taking Larchmont as the center, he had drawn a
  crayon circle. He prodded within the circle with a finger.
  "Twenty-five-mile radius. I reckon the headquarters is somewhere inside
  here."

 At 8:40 P.m. on Friday evening, while the CBA News group was still dining
 at Shun Lee West, a buzzer sounded in the midManhattan apartment of the
 Peruvian diplomat, Jos6 Antonio Salaverry. It signaled a visitor.
  The apartment, on Forty-eighth Street near Park Avenue, was part of a
  twenty-floor complex. Although a doorman was stationed on the main floor,
  visitors used an outside intercom system to announce their arrival, then
  were admitted directly by the building's tenants.
  Salaverry had been edgy since his meeting with Miguel that morning at
  United Nations headquarters and was anxious to hear that the
  Medellin/Sendero Luminoso group was safely out of the country. Their
  departure, he thought, would end his own association with the frightening
  matter that had filled his mind since yesterday.
  He and his banker friend, Helga Efferen, had been drinking vodka-tonics
  in front of a fireplace for more than an hour, neither of them feeling
  inclined to go to the kitchen to prepare food or to telephone and order
  it sent in. While the liquor had relaxed them physically, it had removed
  none of their anxiety.
  They were an oddly matched pair-Salaverry, small and weasely; Helga, whom
  the single word "ample" best described. She was big-boned, abundantly
  fleshed, with cornucopian breasts, and a natural blonde. Nature, however,
  had stopped
            The Evening News     217

 short of making her beautiful; there was a harshness to her face and an
 acidic manner that repelled some men, though not Salaverry. From their
 first meeting in the bank he had been drawn to Helga, perhaps seeing in
 her a reflection of himself and sensing, too, her hidden but strong
 sexuality.
  If so, he had been right on both counts. They shared the same points of
  view, which were based mainly on pragmatism, selfishness and avarice. As
  to sex, during their frequent fornicating an aroused Helga became a
  frenzied whale to Jos6 Antonio's Jonah, surrounding and almost swallowing
  him. He loved it. Helga was also given to crying out loudly, sometimes
  screaming, at her climax, which made him feel macho and-in every
  way-bigger than he was.
  A rare exception to this erogenous enjoyment had occurred earlier that
  evening. They had begun copulating, hoping to erase, even temporarily,
  their great worry. But it didn't happen and after a while they both
  realized that they didn't have their hearts in the enterprise and gave
  up.
  The mental empathy, though, remained intact and was typified by their
  attitude to the Sloane family kidnapping.
  Both were aware that they possessed important knowledge about a
  sensational crime which dominated the news and whose victims and
  perpetrators were being sought by almost every law enforcement agency in
  the country. Worse, they had aided and abetted the financing of the
  kidnap gang.
  However, it was not the safety of the kidnap victims that troubled Jos~
  Antonio and Helga. It was their own. Salaverry knew that if his
  involvement were exposed, not even his diplomatic immunity would save him
  from exceedingly unpleasant consequences, including expulsion from the
  UN and the United States, the extinction of his career and, more than
  probably, the vengeance of Sendero Luminoso back in Peru. Helga, with no
  diplomatic protection, could be sent to prison for criminally withholding
  information and also, perhaps, for accepting bribes to channel funds
  secretly in the bank she worked for.
  Those thoughts were running through her mind when the buzzer sounded and
  her paramour jumped up, hurrying to the
 218        ARTHUR HAILEY

 wall-mounted intercom connected with the main floor entrance. Pressing a
 button, he queried, "Yes?"
  A voice, made metallic by the system, announced, "This is Plato."
  With relief, Salaverry informed Helga, "It's him." Then into the
  intercom, "Come up, please." He pressed a button which would release an
  entrance lock downstairs.

  Seventeen floors below, the man who had been speaking with Salaverry
  entered the apartment building through a heavy plate-glass door. He was
  of average build, thin-faced and swarthy, with deep-set, brooding eyes
  and glossy dark hair. His age could have been anywhere from thirty-eight
  to fifty-five. He wore a trench coat, unbuttoned at the front, over an
  unremarkable brown suit. He had come in wearing lightweight gloves and
  despite the building's warmth did not remove them.
  A uniformed doorman who had seen the man arrive and use the intercom
  waved him to an elevator. Three other people already waiting in the lobby
  entered the elevator too. The man in the trench coat ignored them. After
  pressing a button for the eighteenth floor, he stood expressionless,
  looking straight ahead. By the time the elevator reached his floor, the
  other occupants had left.
  He followed an arrow to the apartment he sought, carefully noting there
  were three other apartments on the floor and an emergency stairway to the
  right. He did not expect to use the information, but memorizing escape
  routes was a habit, At the apartment doorway he pressed a button and
  heard a soft chime inside. Almost at once the door opened.
  The man asked, "Mr. Salaverry?" His voice was soft, with a Latin accent.
  "Yes, yes. Come in. Let me take your coat?"
  "No. I will not be staying." The visitor looked swiftly around. Seeing
  Helga, he inquired, "This woman is the banker?"
  It seemed an ungracious way of putting it, but Salaverry answered, "Yes,
  Miss Efferen. And your name?"
            The Evening News     219

  "Plato will do." Nodding to the area in front of the fire, "Can we go
  there?"
  "Of course." Salaverry noticed that the man kept his gloves on. Maybe, he
  thought, it was a personal fetish or perhaps the fellow had a deformity.
  They were now in front of the fireplace. After the slightest of nods to
  Helga, the man asked, "Is anyone else here?"
  Salaverry shook his head. "We are alone. You may speak freely.,,
  "I have a message," the man said, reaching into his trench coat. When his
  hand emerged, it was holding a nine-millimeter Browning pistol with a
  silencer on the muzzle.
  The liquor he had drunk slowed Salaverry's reactions, though even had they
  been normal it was unlikely he could have done anything to change what
  happened next. While the Peruvian froze in amazement, and before he could
  move, the man put the gun against Salaverry's forehead and squeezed the
  trigger. In his last brief moment of life the victim's mouth hung open in
  surprise and disbelief.
  The wound was small where the bullet entered-a neat red circle surrounded
  by a powder bum. But the exit wound at the rear of the head was large and
  messy as bone fragments, brain tissue and blood splattered out. In an
  instant before the body fell, the man in the raincoat had time to notice
  the powder bum, an effect he had intended. Then he turned to the woman.
  Helga, too, had been riveted by shock. By now, however, surprise had turned
  to terror. She began to scream, and at the same time attempted to run.
  In both efforts she was too late. The man, an accurate marksman, put one
  bullet through her heart. She fell and died, her blood pouring onto the rug
  where she had fallen.
  The hit man, who was Miguel's paid assassin dispatched from Little
  Colombia, paused to listen carefully. The silencer on the Browning had
  effectively muffled the sound of both shots, but he took no chances,
  waiting for possible intervention from outside. If there had been any noise
  from neighbors or other signs of curiosity, he would have left immediately.
  As it
 220        ARTHUR BAILEY

 was, the silence continued and he proceeded, swiftly and efficiently, with
 the remaining things he had been instructed to do.
  First, he removed the silencer from the pistol and pocketed it. He put the
  pistol down temporarily near Salaverry's body. Then, from another pocket
  of his coat, he produced a small can of spray paint. Crossing to a wall of
  the apartment, he sprayed across it in large black letters the word
  CORNUDO.
  Returning to Salaverry, he allowed some of the black paint to drip onto the
  dead man's right hand, then wrapped the limp fingers around the can and
  pressed them, so Salaverry's fingerprints were on the can. The hit man
  stood the can on a nearby table, then picked up the gun and placed it in
  the dead man's hand, again squeezing the fingers so that Salaverry's prints
  were on the gun. He arranged the gun and the hand so it would appear
  Salaverry had shot himself, then fallen to the floor.
  The hit man did nothing to the woman's body, leaving it where it had
  fallen.
  Next, the intruder took a folded sheet of stationery from his pocket on
  which were typed words. They read:

 So you would not believe me when I told you she is a nymphomaniac whore,
 unworthy ofyou. You think she loves you when all she feels for you is con
 tempt. You trusted her, ga ve her a key to your apartment. What she did with
 it was take other men therefor vile sexual acm Here are photographs to prove
 it. She brought the man and allowed his photographer friend to take
 pictures. Her nymphomania extends to collecting such pictures for herseo'
 Surely, her use of your home so monstrously is the ultimate insult to a
 machismo man such as you.
              -Your Former (and True) Friend

  Moving from the living room, the hit man entered what obviously had been
  Salaverry's bedroom. He crumpled the typed sheet into a ball and threw it
  into a wastebasket. When the apartment was searched by police, as it would
  be, the paper was certain to be found. The probability was strong that it
            The Evening News     221

 would be regarded as a sernianonymous letter, the authorship known only to
 Salaverry when he was alive.
  A final touch was an envelope, also produced by the hit man, containing
  some fragments of black-and-white glossy photos, each fragment burned at
  the edges. Entering a bathroom that adjoined the bedroom, he emptied the
  envelope's contents into the toilet bowl, leaving the pieces floating.
  The pieces were too small to be identified. However, a reasonable
  assumption would be that Salaverry, after receiving the accusatory letter,
  had burned the accompanying photos and flushed the ashes down the toilet,
  though a few unburned portions still remained. Then, having learned of his
  apparent betrayal by his beloved Helga, in a jealous rage he shot and
  killed her.
  Salaverry would then have sprayed the single word on the wall, a pathetic
  message describing what he felt himself to be. (If the investigating police
  officers did not speak Spanish, someone would quickly enlighten them that
  the English version of the word was "cuckold.")
  There was even a touch of artistry in that crudely printed parting cry.
  While not, perhaps, the kind of thing an AngloSaxon or native American
  might do, it bespoke the volatile frenzy of a Latin lover.
  A final assumption: In despair, unwilling to face the consequences of his
  act, Salaverry killed himself, the powder bum on his forehead being typical
  of a self-inflicted head wound.
  As the experienced planners of the scene well knew, in New York City where
  unsolved homicides were commonplace and the police detective force severely
  overburdened, little time and effort would be spent investigating a crime
  where the circumstances and solution were so plainly in view.
  The hit man surveyed the apartment living room, making a final check, then
  quietly left. When he walked out of the building unhindered, he had been
  inside less than fifteen minutes. A few blocks away, he peeled off his
  gloves and threw them into a sidewalk trash can.
 222       ARTHUR HAILEY

                9

 Norman Jaeger asked, "Do you think Teddy Cooper will come up with
 something?"
  "It wouldn't surprise me," Partridge said. "He has before."
  It was after 10:30 and they were walking south on Broadway, near Central
  Park. The dinner meeting at Shun Lee West had broken up a quarter of an
  hour earlier, shortly after Cooper's declared opinion that the kidnap
  gang's headquarters was within a twenty-five-mile radius of Larchmont. He
  had followed the first opinion with a second.
  The kidnappers and their victims, he believed, were at that operating
  center now, the gang members lying low until the initial searching eased
  up and police roadblocks were decreased or abandoned-both of which would
  inevitably happen soon. Then the gang and prisoners would move to some more
  distant location, perhaps in the United States, possibly elsewhere.
  Cooper's reasoning had been considered seriously by the others. As Rita
  Abrams put it, "It makes as much sense as anything so far."
  But Karl Owens pointed out, "That's an enormous area you're talking about,
  densely populated, and there's no way of searching it effectively, even
  with an army." He added, needling Cooper, "That is, unless you have another
  brilliant idea breezing up behind."
  "Not right now," Cooper had answered. "I need a good night's kip. Then
  maybe I'll come up with-as you so kindly put it-something 'brilliant' in
  the morning."
  They ended the discussion there, and though the next day was Saturday,
  Partridge had summoned another task force meeting for 10 A.m. For tonight,
  most of the group went their separate ways by taxi, though Partridge and
  Jaeger, enjoying the night air, decided to walk to their hotels.
            The Evening News     223

 "Where did you latch on to this guy Cooper?" Jaeger asked. Partridge told
 him about discovering Teddy at the BBC, being impressed with his work and,
 soon after, finding him a better job with CBA.
  "One of the first things he did for us ir London," Partridge continued,
  "was in 1984, at the time the Red Sea was being mined. A lot of ships were
  getting blown up and sunk all over the place, but no one knew who the hell
  was laying the mines. Remember?"
  "Sure I remember," Jaeger said. "Iran and Libya were prime suspects, but
  nothing more. Obviously a ship was doing the filthy work, but no one knew
  what ship, or whose it was."
  Partridge nodded. "Well, Teddy started researching and spent days and days
  at Lloyds of London, patiently going through their records of ship
  movements. He began by befieving that whatever ship had done the minelaying
  had passed through the Suez Canal. So he made lists of all the ships that
  had gone through Suez since just before the mine Einkings started-and that
  was a helluva lot of ships.
  "Then he went through more records and traced the subsequent movernents of
  each ship he'd listed as it went from port to port, comparing those
  movements with the dates of mine sinkings in particular areas. Finally-and
  I mean after a long, long search-he came up with the name of one ship, the
  Ghat. It had been everywhere where other ships had struck mines, and in
  each case just a day or two before. Talk about a 'smoking gun. Teddy found
  it."
  Partridge went on, "As we know now, the ship was Libyan and once the name
  was in the open, it didn't take long to put proof together that Qaddafi was
  behinL_' it all."
  "I knew we were ahead of others on the story," Jaeger said. "But I didn*t
  know the rest of the yarn behind it."
  "Isn't that usually the way?" Partridge grinned. "We correspondents get
  credit for work that guys like you and Teddy do."
  "I'm not complaining," Jaeger said. "And I'll tell you one thing, Harry-I
  wouldn't change places with you, especially at my age." He ruminated, then
  went on. "Cooper's just a kid.
 224        ARTHUR HAILEY

 They're all kids. This has become a kids' business. They have the energy
 and the smarts. Do you have days like me when you get to feeling old?"
  Partridge grimaced. "Just lately, all too often."
  They had reached Columbus Circle. To their left was the formidable
  darkness of Central Park where few New Yorkers ventured at night.
  Immediately ahead lay West Fifty-ninth Street, beyond it the brighter
  lights of mid-Manhattan. Partridge and Jaeger carefully crossed the
  confluence of thoroughfares as traffic swirled about them.
  "You and I have seen a lot of changes in this business," Jaeger said. "I
  guess, with luck, we'll be around for more."
  Partridge asked, "What do you think's ahead?"
  Jaeger considered before answering. "I'll tell you first what I don't see
  happening, and that's network news disappearing or even changing much,
  despite some dire predictions. Maybe CNN will move into top rank-it has
  the distribution; all that's needed is network quality. But the important
  thing is, there's an enormous appetite out there for news, more than ever
  before in history, and in every country."
  "Television did it."
  "Damn right! TV's the twentieth-century equivalent of Gutenberg and
  Caxton. What's more, for all of television's failings, its news has made
  people hungry to know more. It's why newspapers are stronger and will
  stay that way."
  "I doubt they'll give us credit," Partridge said
  "They may not give credit, but they give attention. Don Hewitt at CBS has
  pointed out that the New York Times has four times as many people
  assigned full-time to television as they have reporters covering the
  United Nations. And a lot of that writing is about us-TV news, its
  people, what we do.
  "Turn it around, though," Jaeger continued. "When was there anything
  important enough about the Times to be featured on TV? All of that
  applies to the rest of the print press, and so you ask yourself, which
  is being acknowledged as the more important medium?"
  Partridge chuckled. "Color me important."
  "Color!" Jaeger seized the word. "That's something else TV
            The Evening News     225

 has changed. Newspapers are looking more like television screens-sornething
 USA Today began. You and 1, Harry, will live to see four colors on the New
 York Times front page. The public will demand it and the old gray Times will
 heed the writing on the tube."
  "You're full of homespun tonight," Partridge said. "What else do you
  foresee?"
  "I see the weekly newsmagazines disappearing. They're dinosaurs. When Time
  and Newsweek get to subscribers, much of what's inside is a week to ten
  days old, and nowadays who wants to read stale news? Incidentally, the way
  I hear it, advertisers are asking the same question."
  Jaeger went on, "So despite their dishonest cover dates and classy writing,
  eventually the weekly newsies will go the way of Collier's, Look and the
  Saturday Evening Post. Incidentally, most kids working in news nowadays
  have never heard of those. "
  They had come to the Parker-Meridien on West Fifty-seventh, where Jaeger
  was staying. Partridge had preferred what he thought of as the more cozy
  Inter-Continental on East Forty-eighth.
  "We're a couple of old war-horses, Harry," Jaeger said. "See you in the
  morning." They shook hands and said good night.

  A half hour later, in bed and surrounded by several newspapers he had
  bought on the way to his hotel, Partridge began reading. But before long
  the newsprint blurred and be pushed the papers aside. He would go through
  them in the morning along with fresh editions which would arrive with
  breakfast.
  Still, sleep did not come easily. Too much had happened in the preceding
  thirty-six hours. His mind was full-a kaleidoscope of events, ideas,
  responsibilities, all of them intertwined with thoughts of Jessica, the
  past, the present memories revived . . .
  Where was Jessica now? Was Teddy right about a twentyfive-mile radius? Was
  there a chance that somehow he, Harry the Seasoned Warrior, like some
  medieval knight in shining
 226        ARTHUR BAILEY

 armor, could successfully lead a crusade to find and free his former love?
  Cut the whimsyl Save thoughts about Jessica and the others for tomorrow.
  He tried to clear his mind to rest, or at least to think of something else.
  Inevitably, that something else became Gemnia . . . the other great love
  of his life.
  Yesterday, during the journey from Toronto, he had relived that memorable
  papal flight: The Alitalia DC-10 . . . the press section and an encounter
  with the Pope . . . Partridge's decision not to use the pontiffs "slaves"
  remark, rewarded by a rose from Gemma . . . the beginning of their mutual
  passion and commitment . . .
  No longer avoiding thoughts of Gemma, as he had for so long, he resumed in
  memory where he had ended the day before.

  That papal tour, through Central America and the Caribbean, was long and
  arduous~ It was one of the most ambitious undertaken by the Pope. The
  itinerary included eight countries and longflights, with some at night.
  From the moment of their initial encounter, Partridge decided he wanted to
  know Gemma better, but his CBA reporting duties allowed him little time to
  see her during stops. Yet they became increasingly aware of each other and
  sometimes in the air, when Gemma wasn't busy, she came to sit beside him.
  Soon they began holding hands and once, before leaving, she leaned over and
  they kissed.
  When it happened, his already strong desire for her increased
  They talked as often as they could and he began to learn about her
  background
  Gemma was born in Tuscany, the youngest of three sisters, in a small
  mountain resort town, Vallombrosa, not far from Florence. "It is not a
  fashionable place where the rich go, Harry caro, but very beautiful "
  Vallombrosa, she told him, was a haven of the Italian middle class, who
  stayed there during summers. A mile away was Il
            The Evening News     227

 Paradisino where John Milton once lived and, legend claimed, found the
 inspiration for Paradise Lost.
  Gemma'sfather was a talented artist who made a good living restoring
  paintings and frescoes; he often worked in Florence. Her mother was a
  music teacher. Art and music were an integral part of the family's life
  and continued to be part of Gemma`s~
  She had joined A litalia three years earlier. "I wanted to see the world.
  There was no other way I could afford it. "
  Partridge asked, "This way, have you seen very much?"
  "Some pieces. Not as many as I would like, and I am growing tired of
  being a carneriera del cielo."
  He laughed. "You're much more than a waitress in the sky. But you must
  have met many people. " With a jealous twinge, he added, "A lot of men?"
  Gemma shrugged "Most I would not want to meet again outside an airplane.
  "
  "But there were others?"
  She smiled, thatflashing sweet smile, so much a part of her. "There has
  been no one I have liked as much as you. "
  It was said simply and Partridge, the professional skeptic, wondered if
  he was being nalve andfoolish in believing her. Then he thought, Why
  shouldn't I believe when Ifeel exactly the same way, when no other woman
  since Jessica has had the same effect on me as Gemma?
  Both of them, he sensed, felt the journey was going too quickly. So
  little time remained At the end of it they would probably walk away,
  never seeing each other again.
  Perhaps because of that sense of time running out, one memorable night
  when the cabin lights were turned low and most others were asleep, Gemma
  curled up beside him and, under a blanket, they made love. In the
  confines of a tourist three-seat section, they should have been
  uncomfortable but somehow weren't, and he remembered it always as among
  the more beautiful experiences of his life.
  It was immediately after their lovemaking-on impulse, and reminded that
  he had lost Jessica through indecision-he whispered, "Gemma, will you
  marry me?"
  She had whispered back, "Oh, arnor mio, of course I will.
 228        ARTHUR DAILEY

  The next stop would be Panama. In a low voice, Partridge asked questions
  and made plans while Gemma, laughing softly, mischievously in the
  semidarkness, agreed to everything.
  In daylight they landed at Panama's Tocumen Airport. The Alitalia DC-10
  taxied in. The Pope disembarked and, like the trained actor he had once
  been, smoothly kissed the ground as a multitude of cameras zoomed in. After
  that, the standard formalities began.
  Before the landing, Partridge had talked with his field producer and camera
  crew, asking them to cover the Pope's activities during the nextfew hours
  without him. He wouldjoin them later in narrating and helping edit the
  regular National Evening News report. Panama, which did not have daylight
  saving time, was only an hour behind New York so there would be sufficient
  time.
  "ile clearly curious, the other CBA staffers asked no questions, though
  Partridge knew it was unlikely that his and Gemma's growing attachment had
  passed unnoticed.
  He also approached the New York Times reporter on the flight, who happened
  to be Graham Broderick, asking if he would share his notes for that day
  with Partridge. Broderick, while raising his eyebrows quizzically, agreed.
  Workingjournalists often made such trades, never knowing when they might
  need help themselves.
  K%en the others disembarked, Partridge held back. He had no idea what
  explanation Gemma gave to her chief the senior purser, but she joined him
  and they left the DC-10 together. Gemma, still in Alitalia uniform, began
  explaining she had no means of changing into other clothes. But he stopped
  her and said, "I love you as you are. "
  She turned to face him, her expression serious. "Do you truly, Harry?"
  He nodded slowly. "Truly."
  They looked into each other's eyes and each seemed satisfied with what they
  saw.
  Inside the airport terminal, Partridge left Gemma briefly. Going to a
  tourist booth, he asked several questions of a pimply youth behind a
  counter. The young man, smirking, told him he
            The Evening News     229

 must go with the sefiora to Las B6vedas, part of the Old City wall in the
 Plaza de Francia. There he would find the Juzgado Municipal.
  Partridge and Gemma took a taxi to the Old City. They got out near a
  towering obelisk topped by a chanticleer, the crowing rooster commemorating
  French canal builders, among them the famed Ferdinand de Lesseps.
  Some twenty minutes later, inside the old wall and standing before a juez
  in an ornate office that had once been a prison cell, Harry Partridge and
  Gemma Baccelli became husband and wife. During afive-minute ceremony
  thejudge, casually dressed in a cotton guayabera, signed an Acta
  Matrimonial which cost twenty-five dollars and Partridge paid twenty
  dollars each to two stenographers who served as witnesses.
  The bride and groom were informed that the additionalformality of
  registering their marriage was optional and, in fact, unnecessary until
  they came back for a divorce.
  "We will register, " Partridge said, "and we will not be back
  At the end, without great conviction, the juez wished them, 'IlQue vivan
  los novios!" They had the feeling he had said it many times before.
  Both then and later, Partridge wondered how Gemma, who unhesitatingly
  agreed to a civil ceremony, reconciled it with her religion. She had been
  born Catholic and her early education, she had told him, was at a Sacrg
  Coeur school. But each time he asked, she merely shrugged and said, "God
  will understand. " It was, he supposed, typical of a casualness many
  Italians had about religion. He had once heard someone say that Italians
  always assumed God to be Italian too.
  Inevitably, aboard the papal airplane the news of the marriage spread---as
  the London Times correspondent put it, quoting Revelation, faster than "the
  four winds of the earth. " In the press section, after takeofffrom Panama,
  a celebratory party was held with great quantities of champagne, liquor and
  caviar. As much as their duties allowed, the pursers and cabin crew joined
  in and told Gemma there would be no work for her through the remainder of
  that day. Even the Alitalia captain left the flight deck briefly to come
  back with congratulations.
 230        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Amid the revelry and good wishes, Partridge sensed strong doubts by some
  that the marriage would last, but also among the men, a feeling of envy.
  Notably, but not surprisingly, there was no representation at the partyfrom
  the ecclesiastics, andfor the remainder of the trip Partridge was aware of
  their coolness and disapproval Whether or not the Pope was ever informed
  of what had happened was something none of the journalists learned, despite
  inquiries. However, on thatjourney the Pope did not visit the press section
  again.
  In the limited time they were able to spend together, Partridge and Gemma
  began planningfor theirfuture.

  In a New York hotel room . . . slowly, sadly . . . the image of Gemma
  faded. The present replaced the past. At last, exhausted, Harry Partridge
  slept.

                10

 In the kidnappers' Hackensack base Miguel received a message by telephone at
 7:30 Saturday morning. He took the call in a small room on the first floor
 of the main building, which he had kept for himself as an office and for
 sleeping.
  Of the six portable cellular phones the group had used, one was earmarked
  to receive special calls, the number known only to those with authority to
  make them. Miguel always kept that phone close to him.
  The caller, following orders, was using a public pay phone so the call
  could not be traced, in or out.
 I Miguel, alert and waiting, had been expecting the call for the past hour.
 He picked up the handset on the first ring and answered, "ISP"
  The caller then challenged him with a prearranged code word, "jTiempo?" to
  which Miguel responded, "Reldmpago. "
            The Evening News     231

  There was an alternative reply. If Miguel's answer to the query
  "weather?" had been "thunder" instead of "lightning," it would have meant
  that, for whatever reason, his group required a twenty-four hours' delay.
  As it was, "rel6mpago" conveyed: "We are ready to go. Name place and
  time."
  The crucial message followed: "Sombrero profundo sur twenty hundred."
  Sombrero was Teterboro Airport, slightly more than a mile away, profundo
  sur the airport's southern end gate. The words "twenty hundred" indicated
  the time-2000 hours or 8 P.m.when the kidnap victims and those to
  accompany them would board a Colombia-registered Learjet 55LR which would
  he there, waiting. The 55, as Miguel already knew, was a larger model
  with a more spacious interior than the familiar 20 and 30 series Lears.
  The LR signified Long Range.
  Miguel acknowledged curtly, "Lo comprendo, " and the conversation ended.
  The caller had been another diplomat, this time attached to the Colombian
  Consulate General in New York; he had been a conduit for messages since
  Miguel's arTival in the United States a month earlier. Both the Peruvian
  and Colombian diplomatic corps were riddled with defectors, either
  Sendero Luminoso sympathizers or on the Medellin cartel payroll,
  sometimes both, and performing their double-crosses for the large amounts
  of money which Latin American drug lords paid.
  After receiving the call, Miguel walked through the house and buildings
  and informed the others, though preparations for departure were already
  in hand and each group member knew what was required. Those to travel on
  the Learjet, accompanying the kidnap victims in their caskets, were
  Miguel, Baudelio, Socorro and Rafael. Julio would remain behind in the
  United States, resuming his previous identity and becoming, once more,
  a Medellin cartel sleeping agent. Carlos and Luis would quietly leave the
  country within the next few days, flying separately to Colombia.
  Julio, Carlos and Luis, though, had a concluding duty after the Learjet
  had gone: to disperse the remaining vehicles and abandon them.
 232        ARTHUR RAILEY

  Miguel had given considerable thought about what to do with the Hackensack
  hideaway. He had considered, as a final act, burning the whole place down,
  vehicles with it. The collection of buildings was old and would go up like
  a furnace, especially with the help of gasoline.
  But a fire would draw attention and, if investigated, the ashes might yield
  clues. While in some ways it wouldn't matter since everyone would be gone,
  it went against reason to make things easier for the American law agencies.
  So the idea of a fire was out.
  If they simply vacated the building, leaving it as it was, their use of the
  place as a kidnap way station might not be discovered for weeks or months,
  perhaps never. But that required the disposition of the vehicles-driving
  them all in different directions for a good distance and then abandoning
  them. True, there were risks involved, speciflcally for those who would
  drive the three cars, the GMC truck and the hearse, but Miguel believed
  they weren't great. In any case it was what he had decided on.
  He encountered Rafael first and told him, "We leave here this evening at
  7:40."
  The burly handyman-mechanic, who was in the outbuilding they used as a
  paint shop, grunted and nodded, seeming more interested in the GMC truck,
  which he had repainted the day before. The former white truck with the
  legend "Superbread" had been transformed to an almost totally black one
  with the name "Serene Funeral Homes" in discreet gold lettering on both
  sides.
  Miguel bad ordered the change himself. Satisfied, he told Rafael, "jBien
  hechol A pity it will only be used once."
  The big man swung around, clearly pleased, a slight smile on his scarred
  and brutish face. It was strange, Miguel thought, that Rafael who could be
  so savage in action, taking demoniac delight in inflicting suffering or
  killing, at other moments behaved like a child in need of approval.
  Miguel pointed to the truck's New Jersey license plates. "These are fresh
  ones?"
            The Evening News     233

  Again Rafael nodded. "From the last set. Ain't been used yet, an' I
  switched the others."
  It meant that all five remaining vehicles now had license plates which
  could not have been seen during the Larchmont surveillance, so that
  driving and abandoning them would be that much safer.
  Miguel went outside to where, within a cluster of trees, Julio and Luis
  were digging a deep hole. The ground was wet from yesterday's rain and
  the work heavy going. Julio was using his spade to sever a rugged tree
  root and, seeing Miguel, he stopped, wiped his swarthy, sweating face
  with a sleeve, and cursed.
  "j-Pinche drboll This is shit work-for oxen, not men."
  On the point of snapping back an obscenity, Miguel checked himself. The
  ugly knifing scar on Julio's face was turning crimson, a signal of the
  man's foul temper and that he was spoiling for a fight.
  "Take a rest," Miguel said curtly. "There's time. We all leave at 7:40."
  Brawling in these last few hours would be a stupid waste. Besides, Miguel
  needed the men to finish digging the hole in which they would bury all
  the cellular phones and some medical equipment Baudelio would leave
  behind.
  Burying the phones, in particular, was not an ideal arrangement and
  Miguel would have preferred to dump them somewhere in deep water. But
  while there was plenty of water in the New Jersey-New York area, the
  chances of doing something like that without being observed were not
  good-at least in the short time available.
  Later that day, when the hole was refilled, Julio and Luis should be able
  to rake leaves over the surface, leaving no trace of what was beneath.
  Carlos, to whom Miguel went next, was in another of the outbuildings,
  burning papers in an iron stove. Carlos, young and well educated, had
  organized the month-long surveillance records and photos of visitors to
  the Sloane house, all of which was now feeding the fire.
  When Miguel told him about the evening departure, Carlos
 234        ARTHUR HAILEY

 seemed relieved. His thin lips twitched and he said, "iQue buenol" Then his
 eyes resumed their normal hardness.
  Miguel had been aware of the strain of the past forty-eight hours on
  everyone, Carlos especially, perhaps because of his youth. But commendably
  the younger man had kept himself under control and Miguel foresaw a command
  terrorism role for Carlos before too long.
  A small pile of what appeared to be Rafael's clothing was beside the stove.
  Miguel, Rafael and Baudelio would all wear dark suits during the departure
  process by air when, to anticipate a possible U.S. Government inspection,
  they would pose as mourners, using a carefully designed cover story.
  Everything else would be left behind.
  Miguel pointed to the clothes, "Don't bum those-too much smoke. Go through
  the pockets, take everything out and remove any labels. Then bury the
  rest." He gestured in the direction of the digging outside. "Tell the
  others."
  "Okay." When he had attended to the fire again, Carlos said, "We should
  have flowers."
  "Flowers?"
  "Some on the casket that goes in the hearse, maybe on the others. It's what
  a family would do."
  Miguel hesitated. He knew Carlos was right and it was something he hadn't
  thought of himself in planning their exit from the U.S., first via
  Teterboro, then aboard the Leaijet to Opa Locka. Airport, Florida, from
  where they would fly directly to Peru,
  Originally, when Miguel had expected only two unconscious captive%, he had
  planned to make two journeys with the hearse between the Hackensack house
  and Teterboro Airport, conveying one casket at a time, which was all the
  hearse would hold. But three journeys with three caskets were too many and
  would entail too great a risk; therefore Miguel had devised a new plan.
  One casket-Baudelio would decide which-would be transported to Teterboro
  in the hearse. The repainted GMC truck of "Serene Funeral Homes" would
  carry the other two.
  The Lear 55LR, Miguel knew, was configured with a cargo
            The Evening News     235

 door that allowed plenty of room for loading two caskets. Getting a third in
 might be difficult, but he was sure it could be done.
  Still weighing Carlos's suggestion, he thought: The addition of flowers
  would make their cover story more convincing. At Teterboro they would have
  to pass through airport security. Probably, too, there would be
  supplemental police because of the kidnap alert, and questions were almost
  certain to be asked about the caskets and their contents. Some tense
  moments were likely and Teterboro, as Miguel saw it, was the key to their
  safe departure. At Opa Locka, from where they would actually leave the
  U.S., he anticipated no problems.
  Miguel decided to take a small risk now to help offset the large one later.
  He nodded. "Yes, flowers."
  "I'll take one of the cars," Carlos said. "I know where to go in
  Hackensack. I'll be careful."
  "Use the Plymouth." It had been repainted dark blue and had license plates
  not previously used, as Rafael had pointed out.
  After leaving Carlos, Miguel sought out Baudelio. He found him, with
  Socorro, in the large room on the second floor of the main house which by
  this time resembled a hospital ward. Baudelio, appearing like a patient
  himself, had dressings over the right side of his face, covering the
  stitches he had put in following Jessica's wild slashing during her brief
  consciousness.
  Normally Baudelio appeared gaunt, pallid and older than he was, but today
  the effect was intensified. His face was sickly white and his movements
  clearly required an effort. But he was continuing with preparations for
  departure and after Carlos informed him of the 7:40 P.m. time, Baudelio
  acknowledged, "We will be ready."
  Under prompting from Miguel, the ex-doctor confirmed that his day and a
  half of experimenting with the drug propofol had shown him how much should
  be administered to each of the three captives to achieve deep
  unconsciousness for specific periods. This knowledge was necessary for the
  times when each "patient" would be left unattended and unmonitored in one
  of the sealed caskets.
 236        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Also, the enforced starvation period for all three-which would be fifty-six
  hours by departure time-was satisfactory. There should be no vomiting or
  aspiration into the lungs, though as extra precautions against choking and
  suffocation, Baudelio added, an airway tube would be placed in each throat
  and the bodies turned on their sides before the caskets were closed.
  Meanwhile, the intravenous injection of fluids had prevented dehydration.
  From transparent bags of glucose, on stands beside each of the unconscious
  trio, drip tubes led to catheters in their arms.
  Miguel paused, looking down at the three bodies. They appeared peaceful,
  their faces untroubled. The woman had a certain beauty, he thought; later,
  if opportunity arose, he might make use of her sexually. The man looked
  dignified, like an old soldier at rest which, according to news reports,
  he was. The boy seemed frail, his face thin; perhaps the enforced
  starvation had left him weak, which didn't matter as long as he was alive
  on arrival in Peru, as had been promised to Sendero Luminoso. All three
  were pale with only a little color in their cheeks,,but were breathing
  evenly. Satisfied, Miguel turned away.
  The funeral caskets into which Angus, Jessica and Nicky would be moved
  shortly before the general exodus to Teterboro Airport were horizontal on
  trestles. Miguel was aware, because he had watched Rafael do it under
  guidance from Baudelio, that a series of tiny vent holes had been drilled
  into each. Almost invisible, they would admit fresh air.
  "What is that?" Miguel pointed to a jar of crystals next to the caskets.
  "Soda lime granules," Baudelio answered. "They're spread around inside to
  counter carbon dioxide from exhaled breath. There'll also be an oxygen
  cylinder, controllable from outside."
  Mindful that during the difficult hours ahead Baudelio's medical skills
  would be vital to them all, Miguel queried, "What else?"
  The ex-doctor motioned to Socorro. "Tell him. You'll be doing it with me."
  Socorro had been watching and listening, her face inscrutable as always.
  Miguel still had questions in his mind about the
            The Evening News     237

 woman's total commitment, but today was distracted by her provocative
 body, its sensuous movements, her blatant sexuality. As if she read his
 thoughts, there was a hint of taunting in her voice.
  "If any of them needs to piss, even unconscious, they might move and make
  noise. So before closing those"-Socorro pointed to the caskets-"we'll
  insert catheters. That's tubes in the men's cocks and the bitch's cunt.
  ~Entiendes?"
  Miguel said testily, "I know about catheterization." On the point of
  telling her his father was a doctor, he checked himself. A moment's
  weakness, the influence of a woman, had almost led him to reveal a detail
  of his background, something he never did.
  Instead he asked Socorro, "When we need it, can you cry?"
  As part of the planned tableau, she also would be a grieving mourner.
  'Isf. 11

  Baudelio added, with the professional pride which occasionally surfaced,
  "I will place a grain of pepper beneath each of her lower eyelids. The
  same for mine. The tears are then copious and will not stop until the
  pepper is out." He regarded Miguel. "I will do the same for you if you
  wish."
  "We'll see."
  Baudelio completed his strategy catalog. "Finally, in all three caskets
  will be tiny monitors to record breathing and depth of sedation. I'll
  have a connection to read them from outside. The propofol infusion can
  be adjusted from outside too."
  Reviewing their exchange, and despite earlier misgivings, Miguel felt
  satisfied that Baudelio knew what he was doing. Socorro too.
  Now it was simply a question of waiting through the day. The hours ahead
  seemed interminable.
 238        ARTHUR HAILEY

                11

 At CBA News headquarters on Saturday morning, the special task force meeting
 called for 10 A.m. had scarcely begun when it was abruptly interrupted.
  Harry Partridge, seated at the head of the conference table, had opened a
  discussion when a speakerphone broke in-an announcement from the main
  newsroom. Partridge paused as he and the six others at the table listened.

   "Assignment desk. Richardson. This bulletin just in from UPI . . .
   "White Plains, New York-A passenger van, believed to be the vehicle used
   in Thursday's kidnap of the Crawford Sloane family, exploded violently a
   few minutes ago. At least three persons are dead, others injured. Police
   were on their way to inspect the van when the explosion occurred in a
   parking building adjoining Center City shopping mall. It happened as many
   weekend shoppers were arriving in their cars. The building is extensively
   damaged. Firefighters, rescue crews and ambulances are on the scene which
   a witness describes as 'like a nightmare from Beirut."'

  Even as the bulletin was continuing, chairs in the conference room were
  being pushed back, the task force members scrambling to their feet. As the
  speakerphone fell silent, Partridge was first out, on the run, hurrying to
  the newsroom one floor below, with Rita Abrams close behind.

  Saturday morning in any network news department was a relatively informal
  time. Most of the Monday-to-Friday staff stayed home. The few on weekend
  duty, while sometimes under pressure, were aware of the absence of the high
  command. For
            The Evening News     239

 this reason dress was casual, jeans predominating, and men showed up without
 ties.
  The main CBA newsroom was eerily quiet, with barely a third of the desks
  occupied and that day's assignment manager, Orv Richardson, covering for
  the national desk as well. Young, fresh-faced and eager, Richardson had
  recently come to the network from a regional bureau. While not unhappy to
  be in charge, the important breaking story from White Plains made him
  slightly nervous. He wanted to be sure of doing the right thing.
  It was with some relief, therefore, that he saw a Big Foot correspondent,
  Harry Partridge, and a senior producer, Abrams, burst into the newsroom and
  hurry his way.
  While Partridge skimmed a printout of the United Press bulletin and read
  a follow-up story feeding in on a computer monitor, Rita told Richardson,
  "We should go on air immediately. Who has authority?"
  "I have a number." With a phone tucked into his shoulder and consulting a
  note, the assignment manager tapped out digits for a CBA News vice
  president available at home. When the man answered, Richardson explained
  the situation and asked for authorization to take air with a special
  bulletin. The vice president shot back, "You have it. Go!"
  What followed was a near-replay of Thursday's intrusion into the network
  when the kidnap news broke shortly before noon. The differences were the
  nature of today's report and the cast involved. Partridge was in the flash
  facility studio, occupying the correspondent's hot seat, Rita was acting
  executive producer, and in the control room a different director appeared,
  having come hastily from another section of the building after hearing a
  "special bulletin" call.
  CBA was on air within four minutes after receiving the UPI bulletin. The
  other networks---observed from control room monitors-broke into their own
  programming at almost the same time.
  Harry Partridge was, as always, collected and articulate, the ultimate
  professional. There was no time to write a script or
 240        ARTHUR BAILEY

 use a Teleprompter. Partridge simply memorized the contents of the wire
 reports and ad-libbed.
  The special broadcast was over in two minutes. There were the bare facts
  only, few details, and no on-scene picturesmerely hastily gathered stills,
  projected over Partridge's shoulder, of the Sloane family, their Larchmont
  home and the Grand Union store where the Thursday kidnap had taken place.
  A fuller report with pictures from White Plains, Partridge promised
  viewers, would be aired later on CBA's Saturday National Evening News.
  As soon as the red camera lights went out in the flash studio, Partridge
  phoned Rita in the control room. "I'm going to White Plains," he told her.
  "Will you set it up?"
  "I have already. Iris, Minh and I are going as well. Iris will produce a
  piece for tonight. You can do a standup there and cut a sound track later.
  There's a car and driver waiting."

  The city of White Plains had a long history going back to 1661 when it was
  an encampment of the Siwanoy Indians who called it Quarropas-which means
  white plains, or white balsam-after the trees that grew there. In the
  eighteenth century it was an important iron-mining center and a
  transportation crossroads. In 1776, during the American Revolution, a
  battle on nearby Chatterton Hill forced Washington's retreat, but in the
  same year a Provincial Congress in White Plains approved the Declaration
  of Independence and the creation of New York State. There were other
  milestones, good and bad, though none exceeded in infamy the explosion
  engineered by the Medellin cartel and Sendero Luminoso in the Center City
  Mall parking building.
  There was, it became clear later, a certain inevitability to the cycle of
  events.
  During the preceding night a patrolling security guard had recorded the
  license numbers and makers' names of vehicles left there overnight-a normal
  procedure and a precaution against cheating by drivers who might claim to
  have lost their parking stub and to have parked for one day only.
  The presence of a Nissan passenger van with New York
            The Evening News     241

 plates had also been noted the night before which, again, was not unusual.
 Sometimes, for a variety of reasons, vehicles were left parked for a week or
 more. But during the second night a different and more alert security guard
 wondered if the Nissan van could be the one he had heard about as being
 sought in connection with the Sloane family kidnapping.
  He wrote a query to that effect on his report and the maintenance
  supervisor, on reading it next morning, promptly called the White Plains
  Police who ordered a patrol car to investigate. The time, according to
  police records, was 9:50 A.M.
  The maintenance supervisor, however, did not wait for the police arrival.
  Instead he went to the Nissan van, taking along a large bunch of car keys
  he had accumulated over the years. It was a source of pride with him that
  there were few locked vehicles which, aided by his key collection, he could
  not open.
  All of this was at a time when Saturday shoppers, in their cars, were
  beginning to stream into the parking building.
  Quite quickly the supervisor found a key that fitted the Nissan van and
  opened the driver's door. It was his final act in the few remaining seconds
  of his life.
  With a roar which someone later described as "like fifty thunderstorms,"
  the Nissan van disintegrated in an intense, engulfing ball of flame. So did
  a substantial part of the building and several cars nearby, fortunately
  unoccupied, though what was left of them burned fiercely. The explosion
  punched wide holes in the parking building above and below where the Nissan
  van had been and caused flaming cars to cascade through the holes to the
  lower floors.
  Nor was the effect confined to the parking building. The Center City Mall
  itself sustained structural damage and, in the mall and beyond, windows and
  glass doors were shattered. Other debris, initially blown upward, descended
  on adjoining streets, traflic and people.
  The shock effect was total. When the initial roar subsided, apart from the
  quieter sound of fires and falling objects, there was a measurable silence.
  Then the screams began, followed by incoherent shouts and curses,
  hysterical pleas for help, unintel-
   242        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ligible orders and, soon after, sirens approaching from all directions.
  In the end it seemed extraordinary that the human toll, when added up, was
  no greater than it was. In addition to the maintenance supervisor's instant
  death, two others died soon after from their injuries and four more victims
  were critically hurt and hovering between life and death. Twenty-two more,
  including a half-dozen children, were injured and hospitalized.
  Overall, the reference to Beirut in the UPI bulletin did not seem
  inappropriate.
  Afterward there would be debate, focusing on the question: Would the
  explosion have happened if the maintenance supervisor had awaited the
  arrival of police? The police said no, claiming they would have called the
  FBI whose forensic experts would have examined the van, discovered the
  explosive material, and then disarmed it. But others were skeptical,
  believing the police would have opened the van anyway, either themselves
  or using the maintenance man's keys. Eventually, though, the discussion was
  seen as pointless and petered out.
  One thing became self-evident. The destroyed Nissan van had indeed been
  used by the kidnappers of the Sloane family members two days earlier. The
  proximity to Larchmont, the van's recorded appearance in the Center City
  parking building Thursday and the fact that it was booby-trapped all
  pointed to that conclusion. So did the license number which, when checked
  against motor vehicle records, was shown as belonging to a 1983 Oldsmobile
  sedan. However, the owner name, address and insurance data in official
  files were quickly discovered to be phony; also the registration and
  insurance fees had been paid in cash, the payer leaving no true identity
  behind.
  What it all meant was that the Oldsmobile had disappeared, probably junked,
  but its registration was kept alive for illicit use. Thus the license
  plates on the Nissan were illegal, though not on any police "hot list."
  A question was raised because a witness at Larchmont had described the
  Nissan van as having New Jersey plates, whereas those seen in the White
  Plains parking building were New York's. But, as investigators later
  pointed out, it was normal for
            The Evening News     243

 criminals to switch license plat~2s immediately after a crime was committed.
  One other conclusion was expressed by the White Plains police chief at the
  explosion scene. He told reporters grimly, "This was clearly the work of
  hardened terrorists."
  When asked if, extending that reasoning, it was foreign terrorists who had
  abducted the Sloane family trio, the chief answered, "That didn't happen
  on my turf, but I would think so."

  "Let's make that foreign terrorist theory our main focus for this evening's
  news," Harry Partridge told Rita and Iris Everly when he heard about the
  police chief's comment.
  The CBA contingent had arrived a few minutes ago in two vehicles-the camera
  crew aboard a Jeep Wagoneer, Partridge, Rita, Iris and Teddy Cooper in a
  Chevrolet sedan driven by a network courier-both having covered the
  twenty-five miles from mid-Manhattan in a sizzling thirty minutes. As well
  as an assemblage of news people at the scene, a growing crowd of spectators
  was being herded behind police barriers. Minh Van Canh and the sound man,
  Ken O'Hara, were already getting videotape and natural sound of the wrecked
  building, the injured who continued to be removed, and of piles of twisted,
  tortured vehicles, some still burning. They had also joined an impromptu
  press conference in time to tape the police chief's statement.
  After making a general assessment of the situation, Partridge summoned Minh
  and O'Hara and began conducting oncamera interviews with some of those
  involved in rescue efforts as well as several spectators who had witnessed
  the explosion. It was work that could have been performed by the camera
  crew alone or with a producer. But it gave Partridge a sense of
  involvement, being in action, of touching the story directly for the first
  time.
  Touching an ongoing news story was psychologically essential to a
  correspondent, no matter how well informed he or she might be about that
  story's background. Partridge had been working on the Sloane family kidnap
  for some forty-two hours, but until now without direct contact with any of
  its elements.
 244        ARTHUR BAILEY

 At moments he had felt caged, with only a desk, a telephone and a computer
 monitor connecting him with the reality outside. Going to White Plains,
 tragic as the circumstances were, fulfilled a need. He knew the same
 applied to Rita.
  The thought of her caused him to seek Rita out and ask, "Has anyone
  talked with Crawf?"
  "I just phoned him at home," she said. "He was about to come here, but
  I pleaded with him not to. For one thing, he'd be mobbed. For another,
  seeing what those bastards are capable of would upset him terribly."
  "Still, he'll see the pictures."
  "He wants to. He'll meet us at the network, so will Les, and I have
  what's been shot already." Rita was holding several tape cassettes. She
  added, "I think you and I should go. Iris and Minh can stay a while
  longer."
  Partridge nodded. "Okay, but give me a minute."
  They were on the third floor of the parking garage. Leaving Rita, he
  walked to an unoccupied, undamaged comer. It provided a view of White
  Plains and the city going about its regular business. In the distance was
  the highway to New England and, beyond, the green hills of
  Westchester-all scenes of normalcy in contrast to the devastation close
  at hand.
  He had walked away from that chaos, wanting a quiet moment to think, to
  ask and answer a tormenting question: Having accepted a commitment to
  somehow find and perhaps free Jessica, her son and Crawford's father, was
  there any hope . . . the slightest hope . . . of his succeeding? At this
  moment Partridge feared the answer would be no.
  What had happened here today, observing what his adversaries were capable
  of, had been a chastening encounter. It raised still more questions:
  Could such merciless savagery be matched? Now that a terrorist connection
  was virtually confirmed, were any civilized resources capable of tracking
  and outwitting so evil an enemy? And even if the answer happened to be
  yes, and despite initial optimism at CBA News headquarters, wasn't it an
  empty conceit to believe that an unarmed news reporting cadre could
  succeed where police, governments, intelligence and military so often
  failed?
            The Evening News     245

  As to himself, Partridge thought, this was no open battle, the kind of
  warfare which, perversely or not, excited him and set his juices flowing.
  This was furtive and filthy, the enemy unknown, the victims innocent, the
  contest sickening . . .
  But personal feelings aside, should he advise for pragmatic reasons the
  abandonment of active engagement by CBA, advocate their return to a
  standard role of news observing or, failing that, at least pass on
  responsibility to someone else?
  He was conscious of movement behind him. Turning, he saw that it was Rita.
  She asked, "Can I help?"
  He told her, "We've never had one quite like this before, with so much
  depending not just on what we report, but what we do."
  "I know," she said. "Were you thinking of turning it in, handing the burden
  back?"
  Rita had surprised him before with her perceptiveness. He nodded. "Yes, I
  was."
  "Don't do it, Harry," she urged. "Don't give up! Because if you do, there
  isn't anyone else that's half as good as you."

 Partridge, Rita and Teddy Cooper rode back to Manhattan together-at a pace
 considerably less frantic than their drive out. Partridge was in the front
 seat with the network driver, Teddy and Rita in the rear.
  Cooper, whose decision to go to White Plains had been made at the last
  moment, had stayed in the background there, observing; then and now he
  appeared preoccupied, as if concentrating on a problem. Partridge and Rita,
  too, at first seemed disinclined to talk. For both, this morning's
  experience had been portentous. While they had witnessed, many times, the
  effects of terrorism overseas, to observe its invasion of American suburbia
  was traumatic. It was as if barbarian madness had
 246        ARTHUR HAILEY

 at last arrived, poisoning an environment which, if not calm, had until now
 possessed a base of reason. The erosion of that base begun today, they
 suspected, would be extensive and perhaps irreversible.
  After a while Partridge turned in his seat, facing the other two, and said,
  "The British were convinced that imported terrorism couldn't happen in
  their country, but it did. A good many believed the same thing here."
  "They were wrong from the beginning," Rita said. "It was always inevitable,
  never if but when?"
  Both assumed with some certainty-acknowledged by the White Plains police
  chief-that the Sloane kidnapping had been a foreign terrorist act.
  "So who the hell are they?" Partridge pounded a fist into his palm. "That's
  what we must concentrate on. Who?"
  It was clear to Rita that Harry had put behind him the notion of abdicating
  the leadership of CBA's task force. She answered, "It's natural to think
  first of the Mideast-Iran, Lebanon, Libya . . . the religious lineup:
  Hezbollah, Amal, Shiites, Islamic Jihad, FARL, PLO, you name it."
  Partridge acknowledged, "I've been thinking that way too. Then I ask
  myself, "y would they? Why would they bother extending their reach so far,
  taking the risks of operating here, with so many easier targets close to
  home?"
  "To make an impression, perhaps. To convince the 'great Satan' there's no
  safety anywhere."
  Partridge nodded slowly. "You might be right." He looked at Cooper. "Teddy,
  should we consider the IRA as possibles?"
  The researcher snapped out of his reverie. "I don't think so. The IRA are
  scum who'll do anything, though not in America because there are still
  idiot Irish-Americans who feed them money. If they went active here, they'd
  cut that payola off."
 "Any other thoughts?"
  "I agree with what you say, Harry, about the Mideast mob. Maybe you should
  be looking south."
  "Latin America," Rita said. "It makes sense. Nicaragua's the most likely,
  Honduras or Mexico possibilities, even Colombia."
            The Evening News     247

  They continued to theorize but had reached no conclusion when Partridge
  said to Teddy, "I know something's at work in that convoluted mind of
  yours. Are you ready to share it with us?"
  "I guess so." Cooper considered, then began, "I reckon they've left this
  country."
 "The kidnappers?"
  The researcher nodded. "And taken Mr. S's family. What happened back
  there this morning"-he inclined his head toward White Plains-"was like
  a signature. To let us know the kind of people they are, how rough they
  play. It's a reminder for later on, for anyone who has to deal with
  them."
  "Let's be sure I read you," Partridge said. "You believe they estimated
  how long it would take for the van to be discovered and blow up, and
  planned to have it happen after they had gone?"
 "That's the size of it."
  Partridge objected, "You're simply guessing. You could be wrong."
  Cooper shook his head. "Better than guessing-say an intelligent
  assessment. Which is probably dead right."
  Rita asked, "Supposing you are right, where does that leave us?"
  "It leaves us," Cooper said, "having to decide if we want to make a big
  expensive effort to find their hideaway, even though it's empty when we
  get there."
  "Why would we care about that if, as you assume, the birds have flown?"
  "Because of what Harry said yesterday: Everybody leaves traces. No matter
  how careful they've been, these blokes will have too."
  Their network car was nearing Manhattan. They were on the Major Deegan
  Expressway, the Third Avenue Bridge ahead, and the driver slowed in
  increased traffic. Partridge looked out, confirmed his bearings, then
  returned his attention to the other two.
 "Last night," he reminded Cooper, "you told us you'd try
 248        ARTHUR HAILEY

 for an idea to locate the gang's headquarters. Is that 'big expensive
 effort' part of it?"
  "It would be. It would also be a long shot."
  Rita said, "Let's hear about that."
  Cooper consulted a notebook and began, "What I figured on first was the
  kind of a place this mob would need to do all those things we discussed
  last night-park at least five vehicles, most likely out of sight, set up
  a workshop big enough to spray those motors, then have enough living,
  sleeping and eating quarters for four people and probably a couple more
  for good measure. They'd want space for storage, then somewhere safe to
  lock up the three Sloanes after they'd snatched 'em, and-for that size
  of operation-an office of some kind. So it wouldn't be anything small,
  especially not some ordinary house with nosey parker neighbors around."
  "Okay," Partridge agreed, "I'll buy that for starters."
  "So what kind of place would it be?" Cooper continued. "Well, the way I
  see it, it would most likely be one of three things---either a small
  disused factory, or an empty warehouse, or a big house with outbuildings.
  But whichever, it would need to be somewhere with not much going on
  around-isolated, lonely-and as we've already agreed, it shouldn't be more
  than twenty-five miles from Larchmont."
  "You've already agreed," Rita pointed out. "The rest of us have gone
  along because we couldn't think of anything better."
  "The trouble is," Partridge objected, "even in that twentyfive-mile
  radius there could be twenty thousand places answering that description."
  Cooper shook his head. "Not that many. After our dinner last night, I
  talked with some of the others and what we reckoned, when you include the
  lonely part, was maybe one to three thousand."
  "Even then, how in hell would we find the one we want?"
  "I already said it would be a long shot, but there might just be a way."
  As Partridge and Rita listened, Cooper described his plan.
  "Start out by mulling this over: When those snatchers got here, wherever
  they came from, they had to set up base close to
            The Evening News     249

 Larchmont, but not too close-just the way we said. So how would they most
 likely find one? First, pick a general area. After that, do what anyone
 else would, 'specially when they're short of time-look through the
 newspaper property ads, and the kind of place they'd need to lease or rent
 would be in the classifieds. Of course we can't be certain, but there's
 a good chance that's how they got the setup they used."
  "Sure it's a possibility," Partridge said. "It's also a possibility they
  had local advance help, with the base set up before they got here."
  Cooper sighed. "Too bloody true! But when all you have to work with is
  possibles, you go for those you can put your hands on. 11
  "So I'm being a devil's advocate, Teddy. Keep going."
  "Okay, moving on . . . What we should do now is study the estate agents'
  ads in every paper, regional and local, published over the last three
  months inside that twenty-five-mile radius, with Larchmont as the center.
  Going through those papers, we'd look for ads of certain types-for the
  kinds of buildings we just talked about--.especially any ad that ran for
  a while, then suddenly stopped."
  Rita gasped. "Have you any idea how many papers, dailies and weeklies,
  and how many people-"
  Partridge told her, "I'm thinking the same way, but let him finish."
  Cooper shrugged. "Do I know the number of papers? No, not exactly, except
  it's a bleedin' lot. But what we'd do is hire people-bright young kids-to
  go around and look through them all. I'm told there's a book , . ."
  Cooper paused to check his notes. "Editor and Publisher International
  Year Book, which lists every paper, big and small. We'd start with that.
  From there we'd go to libraries which have files of newspapers, some on
  microfilm. For the others we'd go direct to the papers and ask to look
  through their back numbers. It'll take a lot of bodies, and it has to be
  done fast, before the trail gets cold."
  Partridge said, "And you figure three months of advertising would cover
  - . ."
  "Look, we know these people were snooping on the Sloanes
 250        ARTHUR HAILEY

 for about a month and, when it started, you can bet they had their pad set
 up. So three months is a sane spread."
  "What happens when we find some advertising that fits the kind of place
  we're searching for?"
  "There should be a big number of 'possibles,' " Cooper said. "We'd sort
  them into priorities, then have some of the same people we hired to check
  the newspapers do the follow-up too. First, by contacting the advertisers
  and asking the odd question. After that, according to the answers, we'd
  decide which places we should take a look at." Cooper shrugged. "Most of
  the look-sees would be goose eggs, but some might not. I'd expect to do
  some of the follow-up myself."
  There was a silence as Partridge and Rita weighed what they had heard.
  Partridge announced his judgment first. "I salute you for an original idea,
  Teddy, but you said it was a long shot and it sure as hell is. A long, long
  shot. Right at this moment, I just can't see it working."
  "Frankly," Rita said, "I think what you'd be trying to do is impossible.
  First, because of the number of papers involvedthere's a multitude! Second,
  the amount of help you'd need would cost a fortune."
  "Wouldn't it be worth it," Cooper asked her, "to get Mr. S's family back?"
  "Of course it would. But what you're suggesting wouldn't get them back. At
  best it might produce some information and even that's unlikely."
  "Either way," Partridge ruled, "we're not making a decision here. Because
  of the money, Les Chippingharn will do that. When we meet with him later
  today, Teddy, you can spell out your idea again."

  The two-and-a-half-minute spot produced by Iris Everly for the Saturday
  National Evening News was dramatic, shocking and-as the jargon
  went-video-rich. At White Plains, Minh Van Canh had, as always, employed
  his camera creatively. Iris, back at CBA News headquarters and working
  again with the
            The Evening News     251

 tape editor, Bob Watson, had fashioned a small masterpiece of news theater.
  The process began with Iris and Partridge joining Watson in a tiny editing
  room--one of a half dozen side by side and in constant use as air time
  neared. There the three viewed all available videotapes while Iris made
  rough logs of the contents of each cassette. A late tape certain to be used
  showed the arrival of FBI agents at the White Plains explosion scene. Asked
  if there had been any communication from the kidnappers, the senior FBI man
  gestured around him and said, grimfaced, "Just this."
  Other tapes included scenes of devastation and Partridge's on-scene
  interviews.
  When they had finished viewing, Iris said, "I think we should begin with
  that pile of burning cars, show where those floors of the building were
  torn apart, then cut to the dead and injured being carried out." Partridge
  agreed and, with more discussion, they crafted a general plan.
  Next, still in the editing booth, Partridge recorded an audio track, the
  correspondent's commentary over which pictures would be superimposed.
  Reading from a hastily typed script, he began, "Today, any remaining doubt
  that the kidnappers of the Crawford Sloane family are full-fledged
  terrorists was savagely dispelled . . . 11
  That evening, Partridge's participation in the broadcast would differ from
  the two preceding days when, on Thursday, he had anchored the news, then
  the following evening been coanchor with Crawford Sloane. Tonight he would
  be in his normal role as a correspondent, since CBA's Saturday news had its
  own regular anchor person, Teresa Toy, a charming and popular
  Chinese-American. Teresa had initially discussed with Partridge and Iris
  the general line their report would take. From then on, aware that she was
  dealing with two of the network's top professionals, she wisely left them
  alone.
  When Partridge finished the audio track, he left to do other things. After
  that it took Iris and Watson another three hours to complete the
  painstaking editing process, a facet of TV news
 252        ARTHUR HAILEY

 seldom understood by viewers who watched the polished end result.
  Externally, Bob Watson seemed an unlikely candidate for the meticulous,
  patient work his editing job required. He was chunky and simian, with
  stubby fingers. Though he shaved each morning, by midafternoon he looked
  as if he had a threeday growth of beard. And he chain-smoked fat, pungent
  cigars which those obliged to work with him in his tiny cubicle repeat-
  edly complained about. However, he told them, "If I cain't smoke, I don't
  think so good, then you get a piss-poor piece." Producers like Iris
  Everly suffered the smoke because of Watson's skill.
  The video and sound editing of TV news reports was done in network
  headquarters, distant bureaus around the world, or could even be on the
  spot near some breaking news scene. The news served up daily by the
  networks consisted of all three.
  The standard tools of a TV editor, which Watson faced with the petite,
  strong-willed Iris seated beside him, were two machines, each an
  elaborate video recorder with precise controls and meters. Linked to the
  recorders and displayed above them was an array of TV monitors and
  speakers. Alongside and behind the editor, racks contained dozens of tape
  cassettes received from network cameramen, the network's tape library or
  affiliate stations.
  The objective was to transfer to a master tape, inserted in the left
  recorder, snippets of scenes and sounds from a multitude of other tapes
  which were reviewed and rereviewed in the recorder on the right.
  Transferring a scene, seldom more than three seconds long, from a
  right-hand tape to the master required artistic and news judgment,
  infinite patience and a watchmaker's delicacy of touch. In the end, the
  contents of the master tape would be broadcast on air.
  Watson began putting together the opening sequence already agreed on-the
  burning cars and shattered building. With the speed of a mail sorter, he
  plucked cassettes from racks, inserted one into the right-hand video
  machine and, using fast forward, found the required scene. Dissatisfied,
  he fiddled with rewind, went back and forth, stopped at another shot,
            The Evening News     253

 returned to the first. "No," he said, "somewhere there's a wide shot from
 the opposite angle that's better." He switched cassettes, viewed and
 discarded a second, then chose a third and found what he sought. "We should
 start with this, then go to the first for a closeup."
  Iris agreed and Watson transferred images and sound to the master tape.
  Dissatisfied with his first and second tries, he wiped them out, then was
  happy with the third.
  Sometime later, Iris said, "Let's see that stock shot of a Nissan." They
  viewed it for a second time; it showed a new and spotless Nissan passenger
  van moving in sunshine down a leafy country lane. "Idyllic," she commented.
  "What do you think of using it, then cutting to what's left of the kidnap
  van after the explosion?"
  "It'll work." After several experiments, Watson combined the two with
  maximum shock value.
  "Beautiful!" Iris murmured.
  "You ain't so dumb yourself, kid." The tape editor picked up his cigar and
  emitted a cloud of smoke.
  Ideas and exchanges continued flowing back and forth. The working alliance
  of a line producer and tape editor had been described as a duet. It often
  was.
  Within the process, though, the possibilities for prejudice and distortion
  were infinite. Individuals could be shown doing things out of sequence. A
  political candidate, for example, might be seen laughing at the sight of
  homeless people when in reality he had wept, the laughter having occurred
  earlier and been directed at something else. Using a technique known as
  "slipping audio," sound or speech could be transposed from one scene to
  another, with only an editor and producer knowing of the change. When such
  things were about to be done, a correspondent who happened to be in an
  editing room was asked to leave. The correspondent might guess what was in-
  tended but prefer not to know.
  Officially such practices were frowned on, though they happened at all
  networks.
  Iris had once asked Bob Watson if he ever let his political
  prejudices-known to be strongly socialist-influence his edit-
   254        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ing. He answered, "Sure, at election times if I think I can get away with
 it. It ain't hard to make someone look good, bad or downright ridiculous,
 providing the producer goes along."
  "Don't ever try it with me," Iris had said, "or you'll be in trouble."
  Watson had touched his forehead in mock salute.
  Now, continuing with the White Plains report, Iris suggested, "Try that
  shot with the doughnut effect."
  "It's better--Oh, goddamn that inconsiderate schmuck!" The head of a still
  photographer had popped up, ruining the video shot, a reminder of a
  perpetual war between press photographers and TV camera crews.
  At one point, pictures on the master tape didn't fit the sound track.
  Watson said, "We need Harry to change some words."
  "He will. Let's finish our stuff first."
  Watson chafed over limiting to three seconds the length of several shots.
  "In British TV news they let their shots run five; you can build a mood
  that way, use sound to help. Did you know the Brits have a longer attention
  span than we do?"
  "I've heard people say so."
  "Over here, if you use five-second shots more than occasionally, twenty
  million assholes'll get bored and change channels."
  When they took a few minutes' break for coffee and Watson had a fresh cigar
  going, Iris asked him, "How did you get into this?"
  He chuckled. "If I told you, you wouldn't believe."
  "Try me.,,
  "I lived in Miami, was the night janitor for a local TV station. One of the
  young news guys who was on at night saw I was interested and showed me how
  the edit machines worked; that was back when they were using film, not
  tape. After that, I'd work like hell to get the cleaning work done fast,
  Come three or four in the morning, I'd be in an edit room splicing
  yesterday's outtakes they'd thrown away, putting stories together. After
  a while I guess I got good."
  "So what happened."
            The Evening News     255

  "One time in Miami, while I was still a janitor, there was a race riot.
  It was at night. Everything was going wild, a lot of the black area,
  Liberty City, burning up. The TV station I worked for had called in all
  its people, but some had trouble getting through. They didn't have a film
  editor, needed one real bad."
  Iris said, "So you volunteered."
  "At first, nobody'd believe I could do it. Then they got desperate and
  let me try. Right away, my stuff was going on air. They sent some to the
  network. The network used it all next day. I stayed on the job ten hours.
  Then the station manager came in and fired me."
  "Fired you!"
  "As a janitor. Said I was goofing off, didn't have my mind on my work."
  Watson laughed. "Then he hired me as an editor. Haven't looked back
  since."
  "That's a lovely story," Iris said. "When I write my book someday, I'll
  use it."
  Soon after, at Watson and Iris's suggestion, Partridge changed some words
  of commentary to match the editing and Watson slipped the rerecording in.
  Partridge also recorded a final standup for the piece, facing a camera
  on the street outside the CBA News building.
  Since returning from White Plains, Partridge had thought deeply, at
  moments agonized, about what he would say. If this had been a normal news
  story a summation would have been easy. What made this story different
  was Crawford Sloane's involvement. Some of the words he had considered
  using would, Partridge knew, bring anguish to Crawf. So should he soften
  them, waffle just a little, or be the hard-nosed newsman with a single
  standard--objectivity?
  In the end, the decision simply happened. Outside the CBA News building,
  with a camera crew waiting and curious pedestrians watching, Partridge
  scribbled the sense of what he would say, then, memorizing the notes,
  ad-libbed.

   "The events in White Plains today--a monstrous trag
 edyfor that city's innocent victims-is also the worst of news
 256        ARTHUR BAILEY

 for my friend and colleague, Crawford Sloane. It means, without doubt, that
 his wife, young son andfather are in the hands of savage, merciless outlaws,
 their identities and origins unknown. The only thing clear is that whatever
 their motives, they will stop at nothing to achieve them.
   "The nature and timing of the crime at White Plains also raise a question
   which many are now asking: Have the kidnap victims by this time been
   removed from the United -States and conveyed to some distant place,
   wherever that may be?
   "Harry Partridge, CBA News, New York

                13

 Teddy Cooper was wrong. The kidnappers and their victims had not left the
 United States. However, according to present plans, a few more hours would
 see them gone.
  For the Medellin group still holed up at Hackensack on Saturday afternoon,
  tension was at a peak, nerves stretched to their limit. The immediate cause
  for concern was radio and TV reports about that morning's events at White
  Plains.
  Miguel, restless and anxious, snapped back answers to questions from the
  others, several times swearing at those who asked them. When Carlos,
  usually the mildest of the five Colombian men, suggested angrily that
  booby-trapping the Nissan van with explosives had been una idea imb6ci4
  Miguel snatched up a knife. Then, gaining control of himself, he put it
  down.
  In truth, Miguel knew that booby-trapping the passenger van at White Plains
  had been a bad mistake. The intention was to provide a harsh warning about
  the kidnappers' seriousness, after they had gone.
  After was the operative word.
  Miguel had been confident that because of changes in the van's appearance
  made following the kidnap---eliminating the
            The Evening News     257

 dark windows and switching from New Jersey to New York license plates-it
 would remain unnoticed in the White Plains parking garage for five or six
 days, perhaps much longer.
  Clearly, his judgment had been wrong. Worse, that morning's explosion and
  aftermath had refocused national attention on the Sloane family's
  kidnappers and raised police and public alertness to a peak, just when
  they were ready to steal quietly out of the country.
  Neither Miguel nor the others cared in the least about the deaths and
  general mayhem at White Plains. In other circumstances they would have
  been amused. They cared only to the extent that they themselves were now
  in greater peril and it need not have occurred.
  The conspirators at Hackensack batted questions back and forth: Would
  police roadblocks, which according to news reports had eased since
  Thursday, be reinstated? If so, would there be one or more between the
  hideaway and Teterboro Airport? And what about the airport? Would
  security be tighter because of the new alert? And even if the four who
  were going, plus captives, managed to leave Teterboro safely in the
  private Learjet, what of the stop at Florida's Opa Locka Airport? How
  great was the danger there?
  No one, including Miguel, had any answers. All they knew for sure was
  that they were committed to going; the machinery of their transfer was
  in motion and they must take their chances.
  Another reason for tension, perhaps inevitable, was the increasing
  disenchantment of the conspirators with one another. Having been in close
  confinement for more than a month with only the most limited outside
  contacts, some personal irritations became magnified into something close
  to hatred.
  Particularly obnoxious to the others was Rafael's habit of coughing up
  mucus, then spitting it out wherever he found himself, including at the
  meal table. At one mealtime Carlos was so offended that he called Rafael
  jun bruto odiosol, prompting Rafael to grab Carlos by the shoulders,
  throw him against a wall, then pummel him with hamlike fists. Only
  Miguel's inter-
   258        ARTHUR DAILEY

 vention saved Carlos from injury. Since then, Rafael had not changed his
 habit though Carlos seethed.
  Luis and Julio had also become antagonists. The week before, Julio had
  accused Luis of cheating at cards. A fistfight ensued which neither won,
  but next day they had swollen faces and the two had scarcely spoken
  since.
  Now, Socorro was another source of friction. Despite her earlier
  rejection of sexual overtures, last night she had bedded with Carlos. The
  animal noises had aroused envy in the other men and intense jealousy in
  Rafael, who had wanted Socorro for himself and reminded her this morning.
  But, she told him in front of the others during breakfast, "You will have
  to change your filthy manners before you stick your Yerga in me."
  That situation was complicated by Miguel's own strong desire for Socorro.
  But as the group's leader he continually reminded himself that he could
  not afford to join in the competition over her.
  His leadership role, he realized, had had other eflects as well. Looking
  in his shaving mirror recently, he realized he was shedding his
  unremarkable "everyman" appearance. Less and less did he resemble an
  innocuous clerk or minor manager, which had once been his natural
  camouflage. Age and responsibility were giving him the look of what he
  was-a seasoned, strong commander.
  Well, he thought today, all commanders made mistakes and White Plains
  clearly had been one of his.
  Thus, for everyone's varying reasons, it was a big relief as 7:40 P.m.
  neared and final pullout procedures got underway.

  Julio would drive the hearse, Luis the "Serene Funeral Homes" truck. Both
  vehicles were loaded and ready.
  The hearse contained a single casket in which Jessica lay, under deep
  sedation. Angus and Nicholas, also unconscious and in closed caskets,
  were in the truck. On top of each casket Carlos had placed a garland of
  white chrysanthemums and pink carnations, the flowers he had obtained
  that morning.
  Strangely, the sight of the caskets and flowers subdued the conspirators,
  as if the roles they had rehearsed in their minds
            The Evening News     259

 and were about to act out had somehow become easier to assume.
  Only Baudelio, fussing around the three caskets, taking lastminute readings
  with his external equipment, remained solely attuned to immediate concerns,
  this being one of several times during the next few hours when the success
  of the enterprise would depend totally on his prior judgments. If one of
  the captives should regain consciousness and struggle or cry out while the
  group was en route, especially while being questioned, all could be lost.
  Even a suspicion that the caskets were in any way unusual could result in
  their being opened and the entire plan foiled-as happened at Britain's
  Stansted Airport in 1984. On that occasion a Nigerian, Dr. Umaru Dikko,
  having been kidnapped and drugged, was about to be flown to Lagos in a
  sealed crate. Airport workers reported a strong "medicine-type smell" and
  British Customs officers insisted that the crate be opened. The victim was
  discovered, unconscious but alive.
  Miguel and Baudelio both knew of that 1984 incident and wanted no
  repetition.
  As the moment to leave for Teterboro approached, Socorro had appeared,
  strikingly seductive in a black linen dress with matching jacket trimmed
  with braid. Her hair was tucked under a black cloche and she wore gold
  earrings and a thin gold necklace. She was crying copiously, the result of
  Baudelio's prescription of a grain of pepper beneath each lower eyelid. She
  now gave the same treatment to Rafael; at first he had objected, but Miguel
  insisted and the big man gave in. Soon after Rafael adjusted to the mild
  discomfort, his tears rolled out too.
  Rafael, Miguel and Baudelio, each wearing their dark suits and ties, looked
  suitably cast as mourners. If questions were asked, Rafael and Socorro
  would pose as brother and sister of a dead Colombian woman, killed in a
  fiery auto accident while visiting the U.S., whose remains were being flown
  home for burial. And since the woman's young son-so the cover story
  went-was one of two others killed in the same accident, Rafael and Socorro
  would be Nicky's sorrowful uncle and aunt. The third "dead" person, Angus,
  would be described as an
 260        ARTHUR HAILEY

 older distant relative who had been traveling with the other two.
  Baudelio would be a supportive member of the bereaved family, Miguel a
  close family friend.
  Elaborate documentation corroborated the cover storyfake death certificates
  from Pennsylvania where the fatal accident supposedly occurred, graphic
  photos of a turnpike traffic disaster scene, and even press clippings
  purportedly from the Philadelphia Inquirer, but in fact printed on a
  private press. The documents had included new passports for Miguel, Rafael,
  Socorro and Baudelio and two spare death certificates, one of which had
  since been used for Angus. The document "package" had been obtained through
  another of Miguel's Little Colombia contacts and cost more than twenty
  thousand dollars.
  Included in the cover story and false news reports was a critical feature:
  All three bodies were so badly mangled and burned that they were
  unrecognizable. Miguel counted on that to deter any opening of the caskets
  during their removal from the United States.
  The hearse and truck now had their engines running and behind them was the
  Plymouth Reliant, with Carlos in the driver's seat. He would follow the
  other vehicles at a distance, though ready to intervene in case of trouble.
  With the exception of Baudelio, they were all armed.
  The immediate plan was to proceed directly to the airport, which should
  take about ten minutes, fifteen at the most.
  In the courtyard of the Hackensack house, Miguel checked his watch. 7:35
  P.m. He instructed the others, "Everyone aboard."
  Alone he made a final inspection of the house and outbuildings, satisfying
  himself that no significant traces of their occupancy remained. Only one
  thing troubled him. The ground where the hole had been dug to bury the
  cellular phones and other equipment was uneven compared with the area
  surrounding it. Julio and Luis had done their best to level the earth and
  spread leaves, but signs of disturbance remained. Miguel supposed it didn't
  matter greatly and at this point nothing could be done.
            The Evening News     261

  Returning to the hearse, he climbed into the front seat and told Julio
  tersely, "Go!"
  Dusk had settled in, with the last traces of sunset on their right as
  they headed for Teterboro.

  Luis was first to see the flashing police lights ahead. He swore softly
  as he braked. From the passenger side of the hearse, Miguel saw the
  lights too, then craned to survey their own position in relation to other
  traffic. Socorro was in the middle, seated between the two men.
  They were on State Highway 17 headed south, with the elevated Passaic
  Expressway a mile behind. Traffic both ways on 17 was heavy. Between
  themselves and the flashing lights there was no turnoff to the right, and
  central dividers made a U-turn out of the question. Miguel, beginning to
  sweat, tightened his hold on himself and instructed Luis, "Keep going."
  He checked to make sure the "Serene Funeral Homes" truck was immediately
  behind.
  Carlos in the Plymouth would be farther back, though it was impossible
  to see him.
  Now they could see that the traffic ahead was being funneled into two
  right-hand lanes by several state troopers. Between the lanes was some
  kind of portable structure like a tollbooth and additional troopers
  appeared to be speaking with drivers as they stopped. Off to the right
  were more state police vehicles and flashing lights.
  Miguel told the other two, "Stay cool. Leave any talking to me.,,

  They inched forward for another ten minutes before gaining a better view
  of the head of the line. Even then it was not clear exactly what was
  happening; by now it was dark, the many lights confusing. It appeared,
  though, that after exchanges between the police and each vehicle's
  occupants, some cars and trucks were being directed to the side for
  closer examination, others waved on.
  Miguel checked his watch. Almost 8 P.m. There was no way they could make
  the Learjet rendezvous on time.
  Despite warning the others to stay cool, Miguel's own ten- 262        ARTHUR DAILEY

 sion was mounting. After their remarkable success so far, was this to be the
 end of the line, resulting in capture or death in a shoot-out with police?
 Of the two, Miguel knew he would prefer death. The chances of bluffing their
 way out of this present jeopardy seemed slight. He wondered: Was it best to
 make a run for it now, at least put up a fight, or should they continue
 sitting here, letting the minutes tick away, with their only hope the
 unlikely gamble of getting through?
  Luis muttered, "The fuckers are looking for us!" Reaching under his coat,
  he produced a Walther P38 pistol and laid it on the seat beside him.
  Miguel snarled, "Keep that out of sight!"
  Luis covered the gun with a newspaper.
  Beside him, Miguel felt Socorro tremble. He put a hand on her arm and the
  movement stopped. He saw her looking steadily ahead, her eyes on an
  approaching state trooper.
  The uniformed figure appeared to be alone, unattached to the group at the
  head of the line. He was glancing into stopped cars as he passed, pausing
  occasionally, apparently responding to questions. When the officer was a
  few yards away Miguel decided to take the initiative. He depressed the
  switch which lowered the electric window beside him.
  "Officer," Miguel called out, "can you please tell me what this is about?"
  The state trooper, who seemed little more than a youth, came closer. A name
  tag identified him as "Quiles."
  "It's just a driver sobriety check, sir, in the interest of public safety,"
  he said with a smile that seemed forced.
  Miguel didn't believe him.
  Then, as the trooper took in the hearse and its contents, he added, "I hope
  you haven't all come from a wake where there was a big booze-up."
  It was a feeble lunge at humor which came out clumsily, but Miguel saw his
  chance and grabbed it. Riveting Trooper Quiles with a glare, he said
  sternly, "If that was meant as a joke, officer, it was in extremely poor
  taste."
  The young trooper's expression changed instantly. He said, chagrined, "I'm
  sorry . . .'9
            The Evening News     263

  As if he hadn't heard, Miguel pressed on, "The lady beside me has been
  visiting this country with her sister. That is her beloved sister in the
  casket behind us-tragically killed in a traffic accident, along with two
  others in the funeral van behind. Their bodies are being flown from here to
  be buried in their own land. We have an airplane waiting at Teterboro and
  we appreciate neither your humor nor the delay."
  Taking her cue, Socorro turned her head so the trooper could see tears
  streaming down her face.
  Quiles said penitently, "I said I was sorry, sir and madam. It just slipped
  out. I do apologize."
  "We accept your apology, officer," Miguel said with dignity. "Now, I wonder
  if you could help us proceed on our way."
  "Hold on, please." The trooper walked quickly forward to the head of the
  line where he consulted a sergeant. The sergeant listened, looked their
  way, then nodded. The young officer returned.
  He told Miguel, "I'm afraid we're all a bit on edge, sir." Then lowering
  his voice in confidence, "The truth is, what's happening here is a cover
  and we're really looking for those kidnappers. Did you hear what they did
  in White Plains today?"
  "Yes, I did," Miguel answered gravely. "It was terrible."
  The car immediately ahead had moved forward, leaving a gap.
  "Both of your drivers can pass around to the left, sir. Just follow me to
  the barrier, then join the onward traffic. Again, I'm sorry for what I
  said."
  The trooper motioned the hearse and GMC truck out of line, at the same time
  signaling a car behind to continue forward. Glancing back, Miguel could
  still see no sign of the Plymouth Reliant. Well, he reasoned, Carlos would
  have to take care of himself.
  The trooper preceded them on foot until they were level with the portable
  booth they had seen from a distance, then waved them by. The road ahead was
  clear.
  As the hearse passed him, Trooper Quiles snapped a smart salute, holding it
  until both vehicles were gone.
 264        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Put to its first test, Miguel thought, their cover story had worked. With
  the challenge of Teterboro still to come, he wondered: Would it work again?

  During the weeks they had been at Hackensack, Miguel had visited Teterboro
  Airport twice to study the layout.
  It was a busy airport used exclusively by private planes. During an average
  twenty-four hours some four hundred flights might land and take off, many
  of them at night. About a hundred aircraft made Teterboro their base and
  were parked along the northeast perimeter. Along the northwest perimeter
  were the headquarters buildings of six companies which provided operating
  services for visiting and resident aircraft. Each company had a private
  entrance to the airport and handled its own security.
  Of Teterboro's six service companies, the largest was Brunswick Aviation,
  the one which, at Miguel's suggestion, the incoming Leatjet 55LR from
  Colombia would use.
  During one of his visits Miguel masqueraded as the owner of a private plane
  and met with Brunswick's general manager as well as the managers of two
  other companies. From those meetings it became evident that, for the
  purpose of loading an aircraft, certain areas of the airport were more
  secluded and private than others. The least private and most popular
  arrival and parking area was known as the Table, centrally located near the
  operators' buildings.
  The least-used parking area, regarded as inconvenient, was at the south
  end. Requests for space there were granted gladly since it relieved
  pressure at the Table. Also nearby was a locked gate, opened on request by
  any of the Teterboro operating companies.
  Armed with this knowledge, Miguel had sent a message to Bogoti through his
  contact at New York's Colombian consulate, advising that the incoming
  Leaijet should request space at the south end near the gate. Then today,
  making one final use of a cellular phone, he had called Brunswick Aviation
  requesting that the south gate be opened from 7:45 to 8:15 P.m.
  Miguel knew from his earlier conversations at Teterboro
            The Evening News     265

 that such a request was not unusual. Owners of private aircraft often had
 business they preferred others not to know about and the airport's
 operators had a reputation for discretion. One of the airport managers had
 even described to Miguel an incident concerning an incoming load of
 marijuana.
  After observing suspicious-looking bales being moved from an airplane to
  a truck, the manager had telephoned police, prompting the drug
  traffickers' arrest. But afterward the aircraft owner, a regular
  Teterboro user, complained bitterly about invasion of his privacy when,
  as he put it, "This is supposed to be a discreet, dependable airport."
  Now, as the hearse and truck neared Teterboro, Miguel directed Luis
  toward the south gate. Though he did not expect to avoid security
  attention entirely, he was gambling on its being more informal there than
  at a main entrance.
  There had been a stressful silence in the hearse since the encounter with
  the State Police. But with tensions easing, Socorro told Miguel, "Back
  there you were imagnificol"
  "Yeah," Luis added.
  Miguel shrugged. "Don't relax. There may be more to come."
  As they neared the airport fence, he checked his watch: 8:25. They were
  already a half hour late, also ten minutes after the time he had asked
  for the south gate to stay open.
  When the headlights of the hearse lit up the gate, it was closed and
  locked. Beyond was darkness-no one in sight. Frustrated, Miguel slammed
  a fist onto the dashboard, exclaiming, ",Mierdal"
  Luis got out of the hearse to inspect the lock. From the truck behind,
  Rafael joined him, then walked back to the hearse. "I can blow that
  mother open with one bullet," he told Miguel.
  Miguel shook his head, wondering why one of the Learjet pilots had not
  met them here. In the darkness he could make out several parked aircraft
  inside the fence, but no lights or activity. Could the flight have been
  delayed? Whatever the answer, he knew they must use the Brunswick
  Aviation main entrance.
 266        ARTHUR HAILEY

  He told Luis and Rafael, "Get back in."
  As they turned away from the south gate, the Plymouth Reliant fell in
  behind. Obviously, Carlos had come safely through the police roadblock. His
  instructions were to follow as far as the airport entrance, then wait
  outside until the hearse and truck returned.
  Approaching the brightly lit Brunswick building, they saw that another gate
  blocked their way. Beside it, at the doorway to a guard post, stood a
  uniformed security man. Next to him a tall, balding man in civilian clothes
  was peering intently at the oncoming hearse. A police detective? Once more
  Miguel felt a tightening of his gut.
  The second man stepped forward. Probably in his early fifties, he moved
  with authority. Luis lowered his window and the man asked, "Do you have an
  uncommon shipment for Seftor Pizarro?"
  A wave of relief swept over Miguel. It was a coded question, prearranged.
  He used an answering code he had memorized, "The consignment is ready for
  transfer and all papers are in order."
  The newcomer nodded. "I'm your pilot. Name's Underhill." His accent was
  American. "Goddamn, you're late!"
  "We had problems."
  "Don't bother me with them. I've filed a flight plan. Let's get going." As
  he went around to the passenger side, Underhill motioned to the guard and
  the gate swung open.
  Clearly, there was to be no security check, no police inspection. Their
  cover story, so painstakingly prepared, was not needed. Miguel found he
  didn't mind at all.
  It was a squeeze with four on the hearse front seat, but they managed to
  close the door. The pilot directed Luis as the hearse moved onto a taxi
  strip between blue lights and headed for the airport's south side. The GMC
  truck was behind.
  Several aircraft loomed ahead. The pilot pointed to the largest, a Learjet
  55LR. From its shadows a figure emerged.
  Underhill said tersely, "Faulkner. Copilot."
  On the Learjet's left side a clamshell door was open; the
            The Evening News     267

 lower half included steps from the fuselage to the ground. The copilot had
 gone inside and lights were coming on.
  Luis maneuvered the back of the hearse close to the Lear's steps for
  unloading. The truck stopped a short distance away and from it, Julio,
  Rafael and Baudelio jumped down.
  With everyone assembled around the Leadet doorway, Underhill asked, "How
  many live ones are flying?"
  "Four," Miguel answered.
  "I need those names for the manifest," the pilot said, "also the names
  of the dead. Apart from that, Faulkner and I don't want to,know anything
  about you or your business. We're providing a contract charter flight.
  Nothing else."
  Miguel nodded. He had no doubt both pilots would earn golden pay for this
  journey tonight. The Latin America-U.S. air routes were loaded with air
  crews, Americans and others, who flirted with the law, taking high risks
  for big money. As for these two, Miguel didn't care one way or the other
  about their wish to distance themselves from what was happening. He
  doubted, though, that it would make any difference if they fell into real
  trouble. The pilots would share it too.
  With the copilot supervising and Rafael, Julio, Luis and Miguel lifting,
  the first casket containing Jessica was transferred from the hearse to
  the jet. Making the turn through the fuselage doorway was difficult, with
  barely an inch to spare. Inside, the right-side seats had been removed.
  Straps to hold cargo in place-in this instance the caskets-were attached
  to tracks on the floor and other fittings overhead.
  By the time the first casket was loaded, the hearse had been moved away
  and the truck backed in. The other two caskets followed speedily, after
  which Miguel, Baudelio, Socorro and Rafael boarded and the clamshell door
  was closed. No one bothered with goodbyes. As Miguel seated himself and
  looked through a window, the lights of the two vehicles were already
  receding.
  With the copilot still fastening straps around the caskets, the pilot
  flipped switches in the cockpit and the whine of engines began. The
  copilot went forward and the radio crackled
 268        ARTHUR BAILEY

 as tower clearance was asked for and received. Moments later they were
 taxiing.
  Reaching over from his seat, Baudelio began connecting external monitoring
  equipment to the caskets. He continued to work at it as the Lea~et took
  off, climbed swiftly through the darkness and headed south for Florida.

  On the ground, some unfinished business remained.
  As the hearse and GMC truck emerged from the airport, Carlos, waiting
  outside, put the Plymouth in gear and followed the hearse to Paterson, some
  ten miles west. There Luis drove the hearse to a modest funeral home which
  had been randomly selected in advance and parked on the establishment's
  lot. He left the keys inside, walked quickly to the Plymouth and drove away
  with Carlos.
  Perhaps, in the morning, the funeral home owner would wrestle with his
  conscience about calling police or waiting to see what happened, if
  anything, about an apparent gift of a valuable hearse. Whatever the
  outcome, Carlos, Luis and the others would be far away.
  From Paterson, Carlos and Luis traveled six miles north to Ridgewood where
  Julio had, by this time, driven the GMC truck. He left it outside the
  premises of a used-truck dealership which had closed for the night. It
  seemed possible that an unclaimed, almost-new truck might eventually be
  absorbed, its presence never reported.
  The other two picked up Julio at a prearranged point nearby, then the trio
  returned to the Hackensack hideaway for the last time. There, Julio and
  Luis switched to the Chevrolet Celebrity and Ford Tempo. Without further
  delay, they and Carlos dispersed.
  They would leave the cars at widely divergent points, with the doors
  unlocked and ignition keys in place-the last in the hope that someone would
  steal the cars, thus making any connection with the Sloane family
  kidnapping highly improbable.
            The Evening News     269

                14
               AIMMUNOW

 It was not until after the first-feed Saturday National Evening News that
 the special task force meeting, interrupted by that morning's harrowing
 events at White Plains, resumed at CDA News headquarters. By then it was
 7:10 P.m. and the task force members had resignedly canceled any weekend
 plans. It was often said of TV news people that their irregular working
 hours, long absences from home and the impossibility of leading any
 predictable social life produced one of the highest occupational divorce
 rates.
  Seated once more at the head of the conference-room table, Harry
  Partridge surveyed the others-Rita, Norman Jaeger, Iris Everly, Karl
  Owens, Teddy Cooper. Most looked tired; Iris, for once, was less than
  immaculate, her hair awry and white blouse ink-stained. Jaeger, in
  shirtsleeves, had his chair tilted back, feet up on the table.
  The room itself was messy, with waste containers overflowing, ash trays
  full, dirty coffee cups abounding and discarded newspapers littering the
  floor. A price paid for keeping the task force offices locked was that
  cleaners had been unable to get in. Rita reminded herself to arrange for
  the place to be spruced up before Monday morning.
  The "Sequence of Events" and "Miscellaneous" boards had been added to
  considerably. The most recent contribution was a summary of that
  morning's White Plains havoc, typed by Partridge. Frustratingly, though,
  there was still nothing conclusive on the boards about the kidnappers'
  identities or their victims' whereabouts.
  "Reports, anyone?" Partridge asked.
  Jaeger, who had lowered his feet and propelled his chair to the table,
  raised a hand.
  "Go ahead, Norm."
 270        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The veteran producer spoke in his quiet, scholarly fashion. "For most of
  today I've been telephoning Europe and the Middle East--our bureau
  chiefs, correspondents, stringers, fixersasking questions: What have they
  heard that is fresh or unusual about terrorist activity? Are there signs
  of peculiar movements of terrorism people? Have any terrorists,
  especially groups, disappeared from sight recently? If they have, is it
  possible they could be in the United States? And so on."
  Jaeger paused, shuffling notes, then continued, "There are some
  sernipositive answers. A whole group of Hezbollah disappeared from Beirut
  a month ago and haven't surfaced. But rumor puts them in Turkey, planning
  a new attack on Jews, and there's confirmation from Ankara that the
  Turkish police are searching for them. No proof, though. They could be
  anywhere.
  "The FARL-Lebanese Armed Revolutionary Factionsare said to have people
  on the move, but three separate reports, including one from Paris, say
  that they're in France. Again no proof. Abu Nidal has disappeared from
  Syria and is believed to be in Italy where there are rumbles that he, the
  Islamic Jihad and Red Brigades are plotting something vicious." Jaeger
  threw up his hands. "All these hoodlums are like slippery shadows, though
  the sources I've used have been reliable in the past."
  Leslie Chippingham entered the conference room, followed a moment later
  by Crawford Sloane. They joined the others at the table. As the meeting
  fell silent, the news president urged, "Carry on, please."
  As Jaeger continued, Partridge observed Sloane and thought the anchorman
  looked ghastly, even more pale and gaunt than yesterday, though it was
  not surprising with the growing strain.
  Jaeger said, "The intelligence grapevine reports some more individual
  terrorist movements. I won't bother you with details except to say
  they're apparently confined to Europe and the Middle East. More
  important, the people I talked to don't believe there's been any
  terrorist exodus, certainly not in sizable numbers, to the U.S. or
  Canada. If there were, they say it's
            The Evening News     271

 unlikely there'd be no word at all. But I've told everybody to keep looking,
 listening and reporting."
  "Thanks, Norm." Partridge turned to Karl Owens. "I know you've been
  inquiring southward, Karl. Any results?"
  "Nothing really positive." The younger producer had no need to shuffle
  notes from his day of telephoning. Typical of his precise methodology, he
  had each phone call summarized on a four-by-six card, the handwriting neat,
  the cards sorted into order.
  "I've talked with the same kind of contacts as Norm, asking similar
  questions-mine in Managua, San Salvador, Havana, La Paz, Buenos Aires,
  Tegucigalpa, Lima, Santiago, BogotA, Brasilia, Mexico City. As always,
  there's terrorist activity in most of those places, also reports about
  terrorists changing countries, crossing borders like commuters switching
  trains. But nothing in the intelligence mill fits a group movement of the
  kind we're looking for. I did stumble on one thing. I'm still working on
  it . . ."
  "Tell us," Partridge said. "We'll take it raw."
  "Well, it's something from Colombia. About a guy called Ulises Rodriguez."
  "A particularly nasty terrorist," Rita said. "I've heard him referred to
  as the Abu Nidal of Latin America."
  "He's all of that," Owens agreed, "and he's also believed to have been
  involved in several Colombian kidnappings. They don't get reported much
  here, but they happen all the time. Well, three months ago Rodriguez was
  reported as being in Bogotd, then he simply disappeared. Those who should
  know are convinced he's active somewhere. There was a rumor he might have
  gone to London, but wherever he is, he's stayed successfully out of sight
  since June."
  Owens paused, referring to a card. "Now something else: On a hunch I called
  a Washington contact in U.S. Immigration and floated Rodriguez's name.
  Later, my source called me back and said that three months ago, which is
  about the time Rodriguez dropped out of sight, Immigration was warned by
  the CIA that he might attempt a U.S. entry through Miami.
 272        ARTHUR HAILEY

 There's a federal arrest warrant out for him and Miami Immigration and
 Customs went on red alert. But he didn't show."
  "Or managed to get through undetected," Iris Everly added.
  "That's possible. Or he could have come in through a different
  doorway-from London, perhaps, if the rumor I mentioned was right. That's
  something else about him. Rodriguez studied English at Berkeley and
  speaks it without an accent-or, rather, with an American accent. What I'm
  saying is, he can blend in."
  "This gets interesting," Rita said. "Is there anything more?"
  Owens nodded. "A little."
  The others around the table were listening intently and Partridge
  reflected that only those in the news business understood just how much
  information could be assembled through contacts and persistent
  telephoning.
  "The little that's on record about Rodriguez," Owens said, "includes what
  I've just told you and that be graduated from Berkeley with the class of
  '72."
  Partridge asked, "Are there pictures of him?"
  Owens shook his head. "I asked Immigration and came up nil. They say no
  one has a photo, which includes the CIA. Rodriguez has been careful.
  However, on that score we may have got lucky."
  "For chrissakes, Karl!" Rita complained. "If you must act like a
  novelist, get on with the story!"
  Owens smiled. Patient plodding was his personal style. It worked and he
  had no intention of changing it for Abrams or anyone else.
  "After learning about Rodriguez I called our San Francisco bureau and
  asked to have someone sent over to Berkeley to do some checking." He
  glanced at Chippingham. "I invoked your name, Les. Said you'd authorized
  zip priority."
  The news president nodded as Owens continued.
  "They sent Fiona Gowan who happens to be a Berkeley graduate, knows her
  way around. Fiona got lucky, especially on Saturday and-if you'll believe
  it-located an English De-
              The Evening News     273

 partment faculty member who actually remembers Rodriguez from the Class
 of '72."
  Rita sighed. "We believe it." Her tone said: Get on!
  "Rodriguez, it seems, was a loner, had no close friends. Something else
  the faculty guy recalled was that Rodriguez was camera-shy, would never
  let anyone take his picture. The Daily Cal, the student newspaper, wanted
  to feature him in a group of foreign students; he turned them down.
  Eventually it got to be a joke, so a classmate who was a pretty good
  artist did a charcoal sketch of Rodriguez without his knowing. When the
  artist showed it around, Rodriguez flew into a rage. Then he offered to
  buy the picture and did, paying more than it was worth. The Catch-22 was
  that the artist had already made a dozen copies which he doled out to his
  friends. Rodriguez never knew that."
  "Those copies          Partridge began.
  "We're on to it, Harry." Owens smiled, still refusing to be hurried.
  "Fiona's back in San Francisco, been working the phones all afternoon.
  It was a big job because the Berkeley English class of '72 had three
  hundred and eighty-eight members. Anyway she managed to scrape up names
  and some alumni home numbers, one leading to another. Just before this
  meeting she called me to say she's located one of the copy sketches and
  will have it by tomorrow. Soon as it's in, San Fran bureau will transmit
  it to us."
  There was an approving murmur around the table. "Nice staff work,"
  Chippingham said. "Thank Fiona for me."
  "We should keep a sense of proportion, though," Owens pointed out. "At
  the moment we've nothing more than coincidence and it's only a guess that
  Rodriguez might be involved with our kidnap. Also, that charcoal drawing
  is twenty years old."
  "People don't change all that much, even in twenty years," Partridge
  said. "What we can do is show the picture around Larchmont and ask if
  anyone remembers seeing him. Anything else?'9
  "Washington bureau checked in," Rita said. "They say the FBI has nothing
  new. Their forensic people are working on
 274        ARTHUR HAILEY

 what was left of the Nissan van at White Plains, but they're not hopeful.
 Just as Salerno said on Friday's broadcast, the FBI in kidnap cases depend
 on the kidnappers making contact."
  Partridge looked down the table toward Sloane. "I'm sorry, Crawf, but that
  seems to be all we have."
  Rita reminded him, "Except for Teddy's idea."
  Sloane said sharply, "What idea? I haven't heard it."
  "Best let Teddy explain," Partridge said. He nodded to the young
  Englishman, also seated at the table, and Cooper brightened as attention
  focused on him.
  "It's a possible way to find out where the snatchers had their hideout, Mr.
  S. Even though by now I'm sure they've scarpered."
  Chippinghain asked, "If they've gone, what good would that do us?"
  Sloane gestured impatiently. "Never mind that. I want to hear the idea."
  Despite the intervention, Cooper answered Chippingham first. "Traces, Mr.
  C. There's always a chance people leave traces, showing who they are, where
  they came from, maybe even where they've gone."
  Including the others in his remarks, Cooper repeated the proposal made to
  Partridge and Rita earlier that day . . . described the kind of property
  and location he visualized as the kidnappers' headquarters . . . his belief
  the kidnappers could have obtained their base by responding to newspaper
  advertising . . . the plan to examine classified ads appearing over the
  past three months in newspapers within twenty-five miles of Larchmont . .
  . Objective of the search: to match the theoretical HQ description . . .
  The detail work, in libraries and newspaper offices, to be done by bright
  young people hired especially . . . Later, the same group, under
  supervision, would investigate possible locations the search produced . .
  .
  Cooper ended, "It's a long shot, I admit."
  "I wouldn't even put it that high," Chippingham said. He had been frowning
  during the recital, his frown deepening as the hiring suggestion emerged.
  "How many people are we talking?"
            The Evening News     275

  Rita said, "I've done some checking. In the area we're speaking of, there
  are approximately a hundred and sixty newspapers, including dailies and
  weeklies. Libraries don't carry back numbers of more than a few of those,
  so mostly it would mean going to publication offices and searching
  through files. Doing that, reading back through three months of ads and
  making notes, would be a monumental job. But if it's to be of value, it
  will need to be done fast . . ."
  Chippingham cut in. "Will someone please answer my question. How many
  people?"
  "I estimate sixty," Rita told him. "On top of that, some supervision."
  Chippingham turned to Partridge. "Harry, are you seriously recommending
  this?" His tone conveyed, You couldn't be that crazyl
  Partridge hesitated. He shared Chippingham's doubts. This morning, during
  the drive back from White Plains, he had mentally labeled Teddy's notion
  a harebrained scheme; nothing since then had changed his mind. Then he
  reasoned: Sometimes taking a stand was a good idea, even with a long
  shot.
  "Yes, Les," he said, "I'm recommending it. It's my opinion that we ought
  to try everything. Right now, we aren't overburdened with leads or fresh
  ideas."
  Chippingham was unhappy with the answer. He felt apprehensive at the
  thought of employing sixty extra people, plus their travel and other
  expenses, for what could turn out to be several weeks-to say nothing of
  the supervisory help Rita had mentioned. That kind of hiring always added
  up to horrendous sums. Of course, in the old free-spending days of TV
  news he wouldn't have thought twice about it. No one did. But now, Margot
  Lloyd-Mason's edict about the kidnap task force echoed in his mind: "I
  don't want anyone . . . going wild about spending money . , . No activity
  exceeding budget is to be embarked on without my advance approval. "
  Well, Chippingham thought, as much as anyone else he wanted to find out
  where Jessica, the Sloane kid and the old man had been taken and, if he
  had to, he'd go to bat with Margot on the money crunch. But it would have
  to be on behalf
 276        ARTHUR DAILEY

 of something he believed in and not this piece of idiot shit from the
 arrogant Limey.
  "Harry, I'm going to veto that one, at least for the time being,"
  Chippingham said. "I simply don't think it has enough possibility to
  justify the effort." Even now, he supposed, if the others knew the part of
  his thinking that included Margot, they would call him craven. Well, never
  mind, he had problemsincluding hanging on to his own job-they didn't know
  about.
 Jaeger began, "I would have thought, Les . . ."
  Before he could finish, Crawford Sloane said, "Norm, let me." As Jaeger
  subsided, the anchorman's voice sharpened. "When you talk about not
  justifying the effort, Les, aren't you really saying you won't spend the
  money?"
  "That's a factor; you know it always is. But mostly it's a judgment call.
  What's been suggested isn't a good idea."
 "Perhaps you have a better one,"
 "Not at this moment."
  Sloane said icily, "Then I have a question and I'd like an honest answer.
  Has Margot Lloyd-Mason put a spending freeze on?"
  Chippingham said uneasily, "We've discussed budget, that's all." He added,
  "Can you and I talk privately?"
  "No!" Sloane roared, jumping to his feet, glaring at Chippingham. "No
  goddamn privacy for that cold-hearted bitch! You answered my question.
  There is a money freeze."
  "It's not significant. For anything worthwhile, I'll simply call Stonehenge
  . . ."
  Sloane stormed, "And what I'll call is a press conferenceright here,
  tonight! To tell the world that while my family is suffering in some
  hellhole, god knows where, this wealthy network is huddling with
  accountants, reviewing budgets, haggling over pennies . . ."
  Chippingham protested, "No one's haggling! Crawf, this isn't necessary. I'm
  sorry."
 "And what the hell good does that do?"
  The others around the table could scarcely believe what they were hearing:
  In the first place, that a spending freeze had been applied secretly to
  their own project, and second, in the
            The Evening News     277

 present desperate situation, not to try all possibilities was in-
 conceivable.
  Something else was equally incredible: That CBA should so offend its most
  illustrious citizen, the senior anchorman. Margot Lloyd-Mason had been
  mentioned; therefore it could only be concluded she represented the
  ax-wielding hand of Globanic Industries.
  Norman Jaeger stood up too, the simplest form of protest. He said
  quietly, "Harry thinks we should give Teddy's idea a chance. So do L"
  Karl Owens joined him. "Me too."
  "Add me to the list." Iris Everly.
  Rita, a touch reluctantly, caring about Chippingham, said, "I guess
  you'd better count me in."
  "Okay, okay, let's cut the histrionics," Chippingham said. He realized
  he had been guilty of misjudgment, knew that either way he was the
  loser, and silently cursed Margot. "I reverse myself. Maybe I was wrong.
  Crawf, we'll go ahead."
  But he wouldn't, Chippingham, decided, go to Margot and ask for
  approval; he knew too well, had known from the beginning, what her
  response would be. He would authorize the expense and take his chances.
  Rita, practical as always and seeking to defuse the scene, said, "If
  we're moving on this, we can't afford to lose time. We should have
  researchers working by Monday. So where do we begin?"
  "We'll call in Uncle Arthur," Chippingham said. "I'll speak to him at
  home tonight and have him here tomorrow to begin recruiting."
  Crawford Sloane brightened. "A good idea."
  Teddy Cooper, seated beside Jaeger, whispered, "Who the hell is Uncle
  Arthur?"
  Jaeger chuckled. "You haven't met Uncle Arthurl Tomorrow, my young
  friend, you are in for a unique experience."

  "The drinks are on me," Chippingham said. Mentally he added, I brought
  you all here to bind up any minor wound&
  He and the others had adjourned to Sfuzzi, a restaurant and
 278        ARTHUR HAILEY

 bar near Lincoln Center with a nouveau-Ancient Roman d6cor. It was a
 regular rendezvous for TV news people. Though Sfuzzi's was crowded on a
 Saturday night, they managed to squeeze around a table supplemented by
 extra chairs.
  Chippingham had invited everyone who had been at the task force meeting,
  including Sloane, but the anchorman declined, deciding to go home to
  Larchmont with his FBI escort, Otis Havelock. There they would wait
  through another night for the hoped-for telephone message from the
  kidnappers.
  When everyone had their drinks and with tensions eased, Partridge said,
  "Les, there's something I think needs saying. At the best of times, I
  wouldn't want your job. But especially right now, I'm certain that none
  of us here could juggle the priorities and people that you're having
  to-at least, not any better."
  Chippingham looked at Partridge gratefully and nodded. It was a testament
  of understanding from someone Chippingham. respected and was a reminder
  from Partridge to the others that not all issues were straightforward or
  decisions easy.
  "Harry," the news president said, "I know the way you work, and that you
  get a 'feel' for situations quickly. Has that happened with this story?"
  "I think so, yes." Partridge glanced toward Teddy Cooper. "Teddy believes
  our birds have flown the country; I've come to that conclusion too. But
  something else I have an instinct about is that we're close to a
  breakthrough---either through our doing or it will happen. Then we'll
  know about the kidnappers: who and where."
  "And when we do?"
  "When it happens," Partridge said. "I'll be on my way. Wherever the break
  leads, I want to be there fast and first."
  "You shall be," Chippingharn said. "And I promise you'll get all the
  support you need."
  Partridge laughed and looked around the table. "Remember that, everybody.
  You all heard."
  "We sure did," Jaeger said. "Les, if we have to, we'll remind you of
  those words."
  Chippingharn shook his head. "That won't be needed."
  The talk continued. While it did, Rita appeared to be
            The Evening News     279

 searching in her bag, though what she was doing was scribbling on a piece
 of paper. Discreetly, under the table, she put it into Chippingham's
 hands.
  He waited until attention was directed away from him, then looked down.
  The note read: Les, feel like getting laid? Let's get out of here.

                15

 They went to Rita's. Her apartment was on West Seventy-second, only a
 short taxi ride from Sfuzzi's. Chippingham was living farther uptown in
 the Eighties while his and Stasia's divorce was being fought over, but the
 apartment was small, cheap for New York, and he wasn't proud of it. He
 missed the plush Sutton Place co-op he and Stasia had shared for a decade
 before their breakup. The co-op was forbidden territory to him now, a lost
 utopia. Stasia's lawyers had seen to that.
  Anyway, right now he and Rita wanted the nearest private place. Their
  hands were busy in the taxi until he told her, "If you keep doing that,
  I'll explode like Vesuvius and it may be months before the volcano's in
  business again."
  She laughed and said, "Not you!" but desisted just the same.
  On the way, Chippingham had the cab driver stop at a newsstand. He left
  the taxi and returned burdened with the early Sunday editions of the New
  York Times, Daily News, and Post.
  "At least I know where I rate in your priorities," Rita observed. "I only
  hope you're not planning to read those before . . . "
  "Later," he assured her. "Much, much later."
  Even as he spoke, Chippingham wondered if he would ever grow up where
  women were concerned. Probably not, or at least not until his libido
  burned lower. Some men, he knew,
 280        ARTHUR HAILEY

 would envy his virility which, with his fiftieth birthday only a few months
 away, was almost as good as when he was half that age. On the other hand, a
 permanent hominess had its penalties.
  While Rita excited him now, as she had on earlier occasions, and he knew
  there was pleasure ahead for them both, he knew also that in an hour or two
  he would ask himself. Was it worth all the trouble? Along the same lines,
  he often wondered: Had his sexual dalliances been worth losing a wife he
  genuinely cared about and, at the same time, putting his entire career in
  jeopardy-the last a reality made clear by Margot Lloyd-Mason during their
  recent meeting at Stonehenge?
  Why did he do it? In part, because he could never resist a carnal romp when
  opportunity arose and, in the news business, such openings were legion.
  Then there was the thrill of the chase, which never lessened, and finally
  the invasion and physical fulfillment-getting and giving, both equally
  important.
  Les Chippingham kept a notebook, carefully hidden, recording his sexual
  conquests-a list of names in a special code that only he could decipher.
  All the names were women he had liked and some who, for a while, he truly
  loved.
  Rita's name, recently added to his book, was the one hundred and
  twenty-seventh entry. Chippingham tried not to think of the list as a
  scorecard, though in a way it was.
  Some people who led quieter or more innocent lives might find that figure
  excessive, perhaps difficult to believe. But those employed in television
  or working in any other creative fieldartists, actors, writers-would have
  no trouble believing it at all.
  He doubted if Stasia had any idea of the number of his side
  excursions-which brought to mind another recurring question: Was there any
  way to repair their marriage, a chance of returning to the closeness he and
  Stasia had enjoyed even while she knew of his philandering? He wished the
  answer could be yes, but knew it was too late. Stasia's bitterness and hurt
  were overwhelming now. A few weeks ago he had tried writing her a letter
  with a tentative approach. Stasia's lawyer had replied,
            The Evening News     281

 warning Chippingham not to communicate directly with his client again.
  Well, he reflected, even if that particular ball game was lost, nothing
  would hinder the pleasure of the next hour or two with Rita.
  Rita, too, had been considering relationships, though on a simpler level.
  She had never married, never having met an available man to whom she
  wanted to tie herself permanently. As to her current affair with Les, she
  knew there was no longterm future. Having known and watched him for a
  long time, she believed Les incapable of fidelity. He moved from one
  woman to the next with the casualness that other men changed underwear.
  What he did have, though, was that big, long body with accessories to
  match, so that a sexual escapade with him was a euphoric, joyous,
  heavenly dream, As they arrived at her apartment building and Les paid
  off the taxi, she was dreaming of it now.

  Rita shut and bolted her apartment door and a moment later they were
  kissing. Then, wasting no more time, she led the way to her bedroom as
  Les followed, dropping his jacket, tossing his tie aside, unbuttoning his
  shirt.
  The bedroom was typical Rita-organized, yet in a casual, comfortable way
  with pastel-colored chintzes, and cushions everywhere. Deftly, she pulled
  back and roughly folded the bedspread, throwing it onto a nearby
  armchair. She undressed quickly, flinging her clothes in all directions,
  an instinctive lover's gesture of shedding inhibitions too. As each
  garment flew she smiled across at Les. He in turn appraised her as he
  slipped out of his undershorts, sending them sailing after Rita's panties
  and brassiere.
  As he had before, he liked what he saw.
  Rita, a natural brunette, began dying her hair in her early thirties when
  a few gray strands appeared. But after changing her job and image from
  correspondent to producer, she let nature have its way and now her hair
  was an attractive mixture of dark brown and silver. Her figure, too, had
  matured and she carried an extra ten pounds over an earlier sleek hundred
  and
 282        ARTHUR RAILEY

 twenty. "You could say," she told Les on the first occasion he had viewed
 her nude, "that I went from Aphrodite to a comfortable Venus."
  "I'll take your Venus," he had said.
  Either way, Rita's five-foot-six body was in excellent shape, the hips
  well rounded, breasts high and firm.
  As her eyes dropped, she knew Les needed no further arousal. Yet he came
  to her slowly, bending down to kiss her forehead, her eyelids and her
  mouth. Then, gently cupping his hands around her breasts, he drew the
  nipples, each in turn, into his mouth. A quiver of bliss ran through her
  as she felt them harden.
  Breathing deeply, each movement of her body a growing delight, Rita's
  hands reached down to Les's groin, moving her fingers gently, slowly, her
  touch feather-light, experienced. She felt his whole body stiffen, heard
  the sharp intake of his breath and a soft low sigh of pleasure.
  Gently, Chippingham. pushed her down on the bed, his hands and tongue
  continuing to explore the sweet, warm wetness of her body. When neither
  could wait any longer, he slid inside her. Rita cried out, then moments
  later soared to a final, glorious peak.
  Rita floated for a while, savoring the lazy moments until her ever-active
  mind posed questions. Each time, their lovemaking was so smooth, so
  perfect, so experienced, that she wondered: Was it always like this for
  the women who had sex with Les? She supposed it must be. He had a way of
  handling a woman's body that had given Rita-and probably all the others
  -an undiluted ecstasy. And Rita's own excitement undoubtedly enhanced his
  own. Only after her exquisite climax-and how wonderful not to have to
  fake or strain toward it!--did he, too, explode within her.
  Later, bodies damp, sweat mingling in its own sweet union, they lay side
  by side breathing deeply, evenly.
  "Leslie Chippingham," Rita said, "has anyone told you you're the world's
  most perfect lover?"
  He laughed, then kissed her. "Loving is poetry. Poetry feeds on
  inspiration. At this moment, you are mine."
            The Evening News     283

  "You're good with words, too," she told him. "Maybe you should be in the
  news business."
  After a while they slept, then, awakening, made love again.

  Eventually, inevitably, Chippingham and Rita turned from sex to the pile
  of Sunday papers which Les had stopped to buy. They spread them on the
  bed and he started with the Times, Rita the Post.
  Both devoured the latest developments from the Sloane family kidnap,
  emphasis being on Saturday morning's explosion at White Plains in the
  vehicle the kidnappers had used, and the resulting devastation. From a
  professional viewpoint, Rita was pleased to see that CBA News had missed
  nothing major in its Saturday evening coverage. While the print press had
  longer stories with more reactions, the essentials were the same.
  From the kidnap, Rita and Les moved on to major national and
  international stories to which they had paid less than usual attention
  in the past few days. Neither spent any time reading, and scarcely
  noticed, a single-column report appearing only in the Post and buried on
  an inside page.

UN DIPLOMAT
SLAYS LOVER, SELF
IN JEALOUS RAGE

   A United Nations diplomat, Joso~ Antonio Salaverry, and his woman
   friend, Helga Efferen, were found shot dead Saturday in Salaverry's 48th
   St. apartment. Police describe the shootings as "a jealous lover's
   murder-suicide. "
   Salaverry was a member of the Peruvian delegation to the UN. Efferen,
   an American citizen, formerly a Lebanese immigrant, was employed by the
   American-Amazonas Bank at its Dag Hammarskjd1d Plaza branch.
   The bodies of the dead couple were discovered early Saturday by a
   janitor. A medical examiner fixed the time of death between 8 and 11
   P.m. the previous day. Substantial
 284        ARTHUR HAILEY

 evidence, police say, points to the discovery by Salaverry that Efferen
 was using his apartment as a base for her sexual affairs with other
 men. Enraged, he shot her, then himself

                16

 With the grace of a gull the Learjet 55LR descended through the night, its
 powerful engines momentarily curbed. It settled toward two parallel
 strands of lights ahead, marking runway one-eight of Opa Locka Airport.
 Beyond the airport were the myriad lights of Greater Miami, their
 reflection a vast halo in the sky.
  From his seat in the passenger cabin Miguel peered through a window,
  hoping that America's lights and all they represented would be behind him
  soon.
  He checked his watch. 11: 18 P.m. The flight from Teterboro had taken
  slightly more than two and a quarter hours.
  Rafael, in the seat ahead, was watching the approaching lights. Socorro,
  beside him, appeared to be dozing.
  Miguel turned his head toward Baudelio who, a few feet away, was
  continuing to monitor the three caskets, using the external equipment he
  had fastened to them. Baudelio nodded, indicating all was well, and
  Miguel turned his mind to another potential problem which had just
  arisen.
  A few minutes earlier he had gone forward to the flight deck and asked,
  "At Opa Locka, how quickly can you do what's needed and get us on our
  way?"
  "Shouldn't take more than half an hour," the pilot, Underhill, had said.
  "All we have to do is refuel and file a flight plan." He hesitated, then
  added, "Though if Customs decide to take a look at us, it could be
  longer."
  Miguel said sharply, "We don't have to clear Customs here."
  The pilot nodded. "Normally true; they don't bother with
            The Evening News     285

 outgoing flights. Lately, though, I've heard they've been making
 occasional checks, sometimes at night." Though attempting to sound casual,
 his voice betrayed concern.
  Miguel was jolted by the information. His own and the Medellin cartel's
  intelligence about the rules and habits of U.S. Customs was the reason
  Opa Locka had been chosen as the airport of departure.
  Like Teterboro, Florida's Opa Locka was used by private aircraft only.
  Because of incoming flights from overseas, it had a U.S. Customs
  office--a small, makeshift affair housed in a trailer, with a
  correspondingly small staff. Compared with Customs departments at
  important international airports like Miami, New York, Los Angeles or San
  Francisco, Opa Locka was a poor relation, obliged to use less exacting
  procedures than elsewhere. Usually no more than two Customs officers were
  on duty, and even then only from 11 A.M. to 7 P.m. on weekdays and 10
  A.M. to 6 P.m. Sundays. The present Lea~et journey had been scheduled on
  the assumption that by this late hour Customs would be closed, the staff
  long gone.
  Underhill added, "If anyone's in Customs and their airport radio is on,
  they'll hear us talking with the tower. After that, they may be
  interested in us, maybe not."
  Miguel realized there was nothing he could do except go back to his seat
  and wait. When he was there he mentally ran over possibilities.
  If they did encounter U.S. Customs tonight, unlikely as it seemed, the
  cover story was in place and they could use it. Socorro, Rafael and
  Baudelio would play their parts, Miguel his. Baudelio could quickly
  disconnect his controls connected to the caskets. No, the problem was not
  with the cover story and all that supported it, but with the rules a
  Customs inspector was supposed to follow when a dead body left the
  country.
  Miguel had studied the official regulations and knew them by heart.
  Specific papers were required for each body-a death certificate, a permit
  of disposition from a county health department, an entry permit from the
  country of destination. The dead person's passport was not needed,
  but-most critically-a
 286        ARTHUR HAILEY

 casket must be opened, its contents inspected by a Customs officer, then
 the casket sealed.
  With careful foresight Miguel had obtained all the needed documents; they
  were forgeries, but good ones. Supplementary were the gory traffic
  accident photographs, unidentified but fitting the general story, also
  the bogus press clippings, the latter stating that the bodies were so
  badly burned and mangled as to be unrecognizable.
  So if a Customs man was on duty at Opa Locka and came their way, all
  papers were in order, but would he insist on looking into the caskets?
  Equally to the point, having read the descriptions, would he want to?
  Once more Miguel felt himself tense as the Leajet landed smoothly and
  taxied in to Hangar One.

  Customs Inspector Wally Amsler figured that some gameplan-happy
  bureaucrat in Washington must have dreamed up Operation Egress. Whoever
  it was, he (or maybe she) was probably in bed and asleep by now, which
  was where Wally would prefer to be instead of wandering around this
  godforsaken Opa Locka Airport, which was off the beaten track in daytime
  and lonely as hell at night. It was half an hour before midnight and
  there were two more hours after that before he and the other two Customs
  guys on special duty here could put Egress behind them and go home.
  The grouchiness was unusual for Arnsler who was basically cheerful and
  friendly, except to those who broke the laws he upheld. Then he could be
  cool and tough, his sense of duty inflexible. Mostly he liked his work,
  though he had never cared for night duty and avoided it whenever
  possible. But a week ago he had had a bout with flu and still didn't feel
  good; earlier tonight he had considered calling in sick, though he
  decided not to. And something else had been distressing him lately-his
  status in the Customs Service.
  Despite doing his job conscientiously for more than twenty years, he
  hadn't advanced to where he believed he should have been by his present
  age, a few months short of fifty. His status was Inspector, GS-9, which
  was really a journeyman grade, no
            The Evening News     287

 more. There were plenty of others younger than himself and with far less
 experience who were already Senior Inspectors, GS- 11. Arnsler took orders
 from them.
  He had always assumed that someday he would move up to Senior Inspector
  but now, being realistic, he knew his chances were remote. Was that fair?
  He wasn't sure. His record was good and he had always put duty to the
  Service above other considerations, including some personal ones. At the
  same time, he had never pushed hard to become a leader and nothing he had
  done in line of duty was spectacular; perhaps that had been the problem.
  Of course, even as a GS-9, the pay wasn't bad. With overtime, working a
  six-day week, he earned about $50,000 a year and there would be a good
  pension in another fifteen years.
  But pay and pension weren't, by themselves, enough. He needed to activate
  his life, to do something by which, even in a modest way, he would be
  remembered. He wished it would happen and he felt he deserved it. But at
  Opa Locka, late at night and working Operation Egress, it wasn't likely
  to.
  Egress was a program involving the random inspection of aircraft about
  to depart the United States for other countries. There was no way all of
  them could be checked; Customs didn't have the staff. So a blitz-type
  operation was used in which a team of inspectors descended on an airport
  unannounced and for the next several hours boarded foreign-destined
  flights-mostly private planes. The program was often in effect at night.
  Officially the objective was to search for high-tech equipment being
  exported illegally. Unofficially, Customs was also looking for currency
  in excess of authorized amounts, particularly large sums of drug money.
  The latter motive had to be unofficial because legally, under the Fourth
  Amendment, there could be no search for money without "probable cause."
  However, if a lot of money was discovered during another type of search,
  Customs had the right to deal with it.
  Sometimes Egress produced results-occasionally sensational. But nothing
  of that kind had happened when Arnsler was around, a reason he wasn't
  enthusiastic about the program.
 288        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Just the same, Egress was why he and two other inspectors were at Opa
 Locka tonight, though outbound foreign flights had been fewer than usual
 and it seemed unlikely there would be many more.
  One of the few was preparing to leave shortly-a Learjet that had arrived
  from Teterboro and, a few minutes ago, filed a flight plan for Bogoti,
  Colombia. Arnsler was now on his way to Hangar One to take a look at it.

  In contrast to most of southern Florida, the small town of Opa Locka was
  an unattractive place. Its name derived from a Seminole Indian word,
  opatishawockalocka, meaning "high, dry hummock." The description fitted,
  as did a more recent one by author T. D. Allman who described Opa Locka
  as an impoverished "ghetto" appearing like "a long-abandoned and
  vandalized amusement park." The adjoining airport, though busy, had few
  buildings, and the area's overall dry flatness--on top of that natural
  hummock--conveyed the impression of a desert.
  Amid that desert, Hangar One was an oasis.
  It was a modem, attractive white building, only part of which was a
  hangar, the whole comprising a luxury terminal catering to private
  aircraft, their passengers and pilots.
  Seventy people worked at Hangar One, their duties ranging from vacuuming
  incoming planes' interiors and disposing of their trash, through
  restocking galleys with meals and beverages, to mechanical
  maintenance-minor repairs or a major overhaul. Other staffers tended to
  VIP lounges, showers, and a conference room equipped with audiovisual,
  fax, telex and copying aids.
  Across an almost but not quite invisible dividing line, similar
  facilities existed for pilots, plus a comprehensive flight planning area.
  It was in that area that Customs Inspector Wally Arnsler approached the
  Learjet pilot, Underhill, who was studying a printout of weather data.
  "Good evening, Captain. I believe you're scheduled out for Bogotd."
            The Evening News     289

  Underhill looked up, not entirely surprised at the sight of the uniform.
  "That's right."
  In fact, both his answer and the flight plan were lies. The Learjet's
  destination was a dirt landing strip in the Andes near Sion in Peru and
  the flight there would be nonstop. But the exacting instructions
  Underhill had been given, and for which the pay would be munificent,
  specified that his departure data should show Bogotd. In any case, it
  didn't matter. As soon as he had shed U.S. Air Traffic Control, shortly
  after takeoff, he could fly anywhere he chose and no one would check or
  care.
  "If you don't mind," Arnsler said politely, "I'd like to inspect your
  ship and your people aboard."
  Underhill did mind, but knew it would do no good to say so. He only hoped
  that his oddball quartet of passengers could satisfy this Customs guy
  sufficiently to have him clear the airplane and let the flight get on its
  way. He was uneasy, all the same, not for the passengers but about his
  own potential involvement with whatever was going on.
  There was something unusual, possibly illegal, about those caskets, Denis
  Underhill suspected. His best guess was that either they contained items
  other than bodies, being smuggled out of the country, or, if bodies, they
  were victims of some kind of Colombian-Peruvian gang war and were being
  removed before U.S. authorities realized it. Not for a moment did he be-
  lieve the story told to him at the time the charter was arranged in
  Bogotd, about accident victims and a grieving family. If that was true,
  why all the cloak-and-dagger secrecy? Added to that, Underhill was sure
  at least two of those people aboard the Lear were armed. Why, also, the
  obvious attempt to avoid what had now happened-an encounter with U.S.
  Customs?
  Though Underhill didn't own the Learjet-it belonged to a wealthy
  Colombian investor and was registered in that country -he managed it, and
  along with salary and expenses received a generous share of profits. He
  was certain his employer knew that comers were sometimes cut with
  charters that were either downright illegal or on the borderline, but the
  man trusted Underhill to handle such situations and keep his investment
  and his airplane out of jeopardy.
 290        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Remembering that trust and his own vested interest, Underhill decided to
  use the accident victims yarn now, thereby putting himself on the record
  and, he hoped, the Learjet in the clear whatever else might happen.
  "It's a sad situation," he told the Customs man and went on to describe
  the tale he had been told in BogotA, which-though Underhill didn't know
  it-tallied with the documents in Miguel's possession.
  Arnsler listened noncommittally, then said, "Let's go, Captain.,,
  He had encountered Underhill's type before and was not impressed. Arnsler
  assessed the pilot as a soldier of fortune who for the right kind of
  money would fly anywhere with any cargo, then later, if trouble erupted,
  depict himself as an innocent victim deceived by his hirers. All too
  often, in Arnsler's opinion, such people were flagrant lawbreakers who
  got away with it.
  They walked together from the Hangar One main building to the Learjet
  55LR, parked under an overhead canopy. The Lear's clarnshell door was
  open and Underhill preceded Inspector Arnsler up the steps into the
  passenger cabin. He announced, "Lady and gentlemen, we have a friendly
  visit from United States Customs."

  During the preceding fifteen minutes, since landing and taxiing in, the
  four Medellin group members had remained aboard the Learjet on Miguel's
  orders. Then, after the engines were shut down and both pilots
  left-Underhill to file a flight plan, Faulkner to supervise
  refueling-Miguel talked seriously to the other three.
  He warned them of the possibility of a Customs inspection and that they
  must be prepared to play their rehearsed roles. There was a sense of
  tension, clearly some anxiety, but all indicated they were ready.
  Socorro, using the mirror in a makeup compact, slipped a grain or two of
  pepper beneath each lower eyelid. Almost at once her eyes filled with
  tears. Rafael this time said no to the pepper and tears; Miguel didn't
  argue. Baudelio had already disconnected his exterior equipment from
            The Evening News     291

 the three caskets, after making sure their occupants were still deeply
 sedated and would not stir for an hour or more if left unattended.
  Miguel made clear he would be principal spokesman. The others would
  respond to his prompting.
  Consequently it was not a total shock when Underhill made his
  announcement and a Customs officer appeared.
  "Good evening, folks." Amsler used the same polite tone he had with
  Underhill. At the same time he looked around, taking in the caskets
  secured on one side of the cabin and the passengers on the other-three
  of them seated, Miguel standing.
  Miguel answered, "Good evening, officer." He was holding a sheaf of
  documents and four passports. He proffered the passports first.
  Amsler accepted them but didn't look down. Instead he asked, "Where are
  you all going and what is the purpose of this flight?"
  Having seen the flight plan, Amsler already knew the declared destination
  and Underhill had described to him the journey's motive. But a Customs
  and Immigration technique was to start people talking; sometimes their
  manner, plus any sign of nervousness, revealed more than actual answers.
  "This is a tragic journey, officer, and a once happy family is now
  overwhelmed with grief."
  "And you, sir. What is your name?"
  "I am Pedro Palacios, not a member of the bereaved family but a close
  friend who has come to this country to give help in time of need." Miguel
  was using a new alias for which he had a matching Colombian passport. The
  passport was real and the picture inside was of himself, but the name and
  other details, including a U.S. entry visa dated a few days earlier, were
  skillful fakes. He added, "My friends have asked me to speak for them
  because they are not proficient in English."
  Amsler looked at the passports in his hand, located Miguel's and,
  glancing up, compared the photo with the face in front of him. "You speak
  English very well, Seftor Palacios."
  Miguel thought quickly, then answered with assurance, "Part of my
  education was at Berkeley. I love this country
 292        ARTHUR HAILEY

 dearly. If it were for some reason other than the present one, I would be
 happy to be here."
  Opening the remaining passports, Amsler compared the photos in them with
  the other three people, then addressed Socorro. "Madam, have you
  understood what we have been saying?"
  Socorro raised her tear-streaked face. Her heart was beating fast.
  Haltingly, forsaking her normal fluent English, she answered, "Yes . .
  . a little."
  Nodding, Arnsler returned to Miguel. "Tell me about those." He gestured
  to the caskets.
  "I have all the required documents
  "I'll look at them later. Tell me first."
  Miguel let his voice become choked. "There was a terrible accident. This
  lady's sister, her sister's young son, an older gentleman also of the
  family, were on vacation in America. They had reached Philadelphia and
  were driving . . . A truck, out of control, crossed the turnpike at great
  speed . . . It struck the family's car head-on, killing everyone. Traffic
  was heavy . . . eight more vehicles crashed into the wreckage, with other
  deaths . . . a fierce fire burned and the bodiesOh, my god, the bodiesl"
  At the mention of bodies, Socorro wailed and sobbed. Rafael had his head
  down in his hands, his shoulders shaking; Miguel conceded mentally that
  it was more convincing than the tears. Baudelio simply looked wan and
  sad.
  While speaking, Miguel had watched the Customs inspector carefully. But
  the man revealed nothing and simply stood waiting, listening, his
  expression inscrutable. Now Miguel thrust the remaining documents
  forward. "It is all here. Please, officer, I ask you-read for yourself."
  This time Amsler took the papers and leafed through them. The death
  certificates appeared to be in order; so did the body disposition permits
  and the entry permissions for Colombia. He went on to read the press
  clippings, and at the words "bodies burned . . . mutilated beyond
  recognition," his stomach turned. The photographs were next. One glance
  was enough and he covered them quickly. He was reminded that earlier
            The Evening News     293

 tonight he had considered calling in sick. Why in hell hadn't he? At this
 moment he felt physically nauseated, and sicker still at the thought of
 what he had to do next.
  Miguel, facing the Customs inspector, had no idea that the other man was
  worrying as well, but for a different reason.
  Wally Amster believed what had been told to him. The documentation was
  okay, the other material supportive and nobody, he decided, could fake
  the kind of grief he had witnessed in the past few minutes. A decent
  family man himself, Amster's sympathy went out to these people and he
  wished he could send them on their way right now. But he couldn't. By law
  the caskets had to be opened for inspection and that was the cause of his
  own distress.
  For Wally had a quirk. He could not bear to see dead bodies and was
  filled with horror at the thought of seeing the mutilated remains
  described, first by Palacios, then in the news clippings he had read.
  The problem had started when Wally, at age eight, had been forced to kiss
  his dead grandmother lying in a coffin. The memory of waxen, lifeless
  flesh against his lips while he struggled and screamed in protest still
  caused him to shudder, so that for the rest of his life Wally never
  wanted to see a dead person again. As an adult he teamed that psychiatry
  had a name for what he felt-necrophobia. WaJly didn't care about that.
  All he asked was that the dead be kept away from him.
  Only once before in his many years as a Customs inspector had he viewed
  a dead body in line of duty. That was when the corpse of an American
  arrived late at night from overseas when Amster was at work alone. An
  accompanying passport showed the deceased's weight as a hundred and fifty
  pounds, yet the shipment weight was three hundred pounds. Even allowing
  for a coffin and container, the difference seemed suspicious and Amster
  reluctantly ordered the coffin opened. The result was horrible.
  The dead man inside was gross, having put on tremendous weight since
  issuance of the passport. Even worse, death and a botched embalming job
  had horribly bloated the body, causing it to putrefy and produce an
  unbelievably offensive stench. As
 294        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Amsler breathed the disgusting air, he frantically motioned for the coffin
 to be closed. Then he ran outside and was violently sick. The sense of
 sickness and that awful smell remained with him for days afterward and the
 memory, never eclipsed, came back to him now.
  Yet stronger than memory, stronger than his fears, was that inflexible
  sense of duty. He told Miguel, "I'm truly sorry, but regulations require
  that the caskets be opened for inspection."
  It was what Miguel had most feared. He made one last attempt to win by
  reason. "Oh, please, officer. I beg of you! There has been so much
  anguish, so much pain. We are friends of America. Surely, for
  compassion's sake, an exception can be made."
  He spoke in Spanish to Socorro, "El hombre quiere abrir los ata~des. "
  She screamed in horror, "iAy, nol iMadre de Dios, nol"
  Rafael joined in. 'Ee suplicarnos, sehor. iEn el nombre de decencia,
  Porfavor, nol"
  Baudelio, his face ashen, whispered, "lPorfavor, no lo haga, sefior! iNo
  lo hagal"
  Without knowing all the words, Arnsler grasped the essentials of what was
  being said. He told Miguel, "Please inform your friends that I did not
  write the regulations. Sometimes I have no pleasure in enforcing them,
  but it is my job, my duty."
  Miguel didn't bother. There was no point in prolonging this charade. A
  moment of decision had arrived.
  The Customs idiot was prattling on. "I suggest the caskets be taken from
  the airplane to somewhere private. Your pilot can arrange it. He will get
  help from Hangar One."
  Miguel knew he could not allow it. The caskets must not leave the plane.
  Therefore only one recourse remained-armed force. They had not come this
  far to be defeated by a single Customs cabr6n, and he would either kill
  the man here in the airplane or take him prisoner and execute him later
  in Peru. The next few seconds would decide. The pilots, too, must be held
  at gunpoint; otherwise, fearful of later consequences, they would refuse
  to take off. Miguel's hand slipped under his coat. He felt the Makarov
  nine-millimeter pistol he was carrying and
            The Evening News     295

 slid off the safety. Glancing at Rafael, he saw the big man nod. Socorro
 had reached into her handbag.
  "No," Miguel said, "the caskets will not be moved." He shifted position
  slightly, placing himself between the Customs man, both pilots and the
  clamshell door. His fingers tightened on the gun. This was the moment.
  Nowl
  In that same instant, a new voice spoke. "Echo one-seventwo. Sector."
  It startled everyone except Wally Arnsler, who was used to hearing the
  walkie-talkie he carried on his belt. Unaware that anything had changed,
  he lifted the radio to his lips. "Sector, this is Echo one-seven-two."
  "Echo one-seven-two," the male voice rasped back, "Alpha two-six-eight
  requests you terminate present assignment and contact him immediately by
  landline at four-six-seven twentyfour twenty-four. Do not, repeat do not,
  use radio."
  "Sector. Ten-four. This is Echo one-seven-two out." Transmitting the
  acknowledgment, Amsler found it hard to keep elation from his voice. At
  this very last moment before removing the caskets he had received an
  honorable reprieve-a clear order he could not disobey. Alpha
  two-six-eight was the code number of his sector boss for the Miami area
  and "immediately," in his superior's parlance, meant "move your ass!" Am-
  sler also recognized the phone number given; it was in the cargo section
  at Miami International.
  What the message most likely meant was that an intelligence tip had been
  received about an incoming flight carrying contraband-most big Customs
  breaks came that way-and Amsler was needed to assist. A need to protect
  the intelligence would be the reason for using landline instead of radio.
  He must get to a phone fast.
  "I have been summoned away, Sefior Palacios," he said. "Therefore I will
  clear your flight now and you may leave."
  Scribbling to complete the needed paper work, Amsler was unaware of the
  suddenly lowered tension and relief, not only of the passengers but of
  the pilots. Underhill and Miguel exchanged glances. The pilot, who had
  sensed that guns were about to be produced, wondered if he should demand
  that they
 296        ARTHUR BAILEY

 be turned over to him before takeoff. Then, assessing Miguel and those
 glacial eyes, he decided to leave well enough alone. There had already
 been delay and complication. They would take their clearance and go.
  Moments later, as Amsler hurried toward the interior of Hangar One and
  a phone, he heard the Lea~et's clamshell door close and the engines
  turning over. He was glad to have that minor episode behind him and
  wondered what was ahead at Miami International. Would it be the big,
  important opportunity he had waited for so long?

  The Learjet 55LR, clear of United States air space and on course for
  Sion, Peru, climbed . . . upward, upward . . . through the night.
   P A B T

 THBEE
 Within CBA News, Arthur Nalesworth-urbane, dignified and nowadays known
 to everyone as Uncle Arthur-had, in his younger years, been a very big
 wheel. During three decades at the network he worked his way to a series
 of top appointments, among them vice president of world news coverage,
 executive producer of the National Evening News,. and executive vice
 president of the entire News Division. Then his luck changed and, like
 many before and since, he was shunted to the sidelines at age fifty-six,
 informed that his days of big responsibility were over and given the
 choice of early retirement or a minor, makework post.
  Most people faced with those alternatives chose retirement out of pride.
  Arthur Nalesworth, not consumed by self-importance but with a great deal
  of eclectic philosophy, chose to keep a job-any job. The network, not
  having expected that decision, then had to find him something to do.
  First they made it known he would have the title of vice president.
  As Uncle Arthur himself was apt to tell it later, "Around here we have
  three kinds of vice presidents-working veeps who do honest, productive
  jobs and earn their keep; headquarters-bureaucrat vice presidents who are
  nonproducing but positioned to take the blame for those above them if
  anything goes wrong; and 'has-been' vice presidents, now in charge of
  paper clips, and I am one of those."
  Then, if encouraged, he would confide still further, "One thing those of
  us who achieve some success in this business
 300        ARTHUR HAILEY

 should all prepare for, but most don't, is the day we cease to be
 important. Near the top of the greasy pole we ought to remind ourselves
 that sooner than we think we'll be discarded, quickly forgotten, replaced
 by someone younger and probably better. Of course" . . . and here Uncle
 Arthur liked to quote Tennyson's Ulysses . . . "Death closes alk but
 something ere the end, Some work of noble note, may yet be done . . . "
  Unexpectedly, after his high-flying days ended, and surprising both the
  network and himself, Uncle Arthur found his own "work of noble note."
  It involved young people, candidates for jobs.
  TV executives found it a nuisance and sometimes a dilemma when asked an
  almost identical question by a succession of people-friends, relatives,
  business contacts, politicos, doctors, dentists, optometrists,
  stockbrokers, guests at parties, a list ad infinitum. The question was:
  "Will you help my son/daughter/ nephew/niece/godchild/pupil/prot6g6 get
  a job in television news?"
  There were days, especially at college graduation time, when it seemed
  to those already in the business that an entire generation of young
  people was attempting to batter down the gates and enter.
  As to their would-be sponsors, some could be brushed off easily by the
  TV executives so approached, but by no means all. Among the
  non-brushables were important advertisers or their agencies, members of
  CBA's board of directors, Washingtonians having clout at the White House
  or on Capitol Hill, other politicians whom it would be foolish to offend,
  important news sources, and many more.
  In BUA days-the initials signifying "Before Uncle Arthur"-CBA executives
  would spend more time than they should making phone calls to one another
  about vacancies, then attempting to placate those whose sons/daughters,
  et al, simply could not be accommodated.
  But not anymore. Arthur Nalesworth's assignment, created partly out of
  desperation by CBA News management, saved his colleagues all of that
  trouble.
  Now, when confronted by a job applicant's sponsor, a CBA
            The Evening News     301

 big shot could say, "Certainly I'll help. We have a special vice president
 to deal with bright young people. Tell your candidate to call this number,
 mention my name, and he (or she) will be given an appointment for an
 interview."
  The interview was always given, because Arthur Nalesworth, in the tiny,
  windowless office he had been assigned, interviewed everybody. There had
  never been so many job applicant interviews before and all were lengthy,
  lasting an hour, sometimes more. During the interview wide-ranging
  questions were asked and answered, confidences exchanged. At the end, the
  interviewee left feeling good about CBA even if no job resulted-as was
  mostly the case-and Nalesworth was left with a perceptive insight into
  the personality and potential of the young person he had faced across his
  desk.
  At first the number of interviews and the time they took became a news
  department joke, with sardonic references to "time filling" and "empire
  building." Also, because of Nalesworth's sympathetic encouragement of
  every applicant, promising or not, the description "Uncle Arthur" was
  coined and stuck.
  But gradually a grudging respect replaced the skepticism. It evolved
  still further when Uncle Arthur strongly urged employing certain young
  people who, when hired, moved quickly and successfully into the news
  department's mainstream. In time it became a source of pride, like
  possessing a diploma, to have been an Uncle Arthur choice.
  Now, with Uncle Arthur in his sixty-fifth year and normal retirement only
  five months away, there was talk among the News Division brass of
  pleading with him not to go. Suddenly, to everyone's surprise, Arthur
  Nalesworth was important once again.
  Thus, on a Sunday morning in the third week of September, Uncle Arthur
  arrived at CBA News headquarters to play his part in the search for
  Jessica, Nicholas and Angus Sloane. As instructed by Les Chippingham. on
  the telephone the night before, he came to the special task force
  conference room where Partridge, Rita and Teddy Cooper were on hand to
  greet him.
  The man they met was broad-shouldered and stocky, of
 302        ARTHUR DAILEY

 medium height, with a cherubic face and a full head of carefully brushed
 and parted silver hair. He had an assured, easy manner. Acknowledging that
 it was not a regular working day, instead of his usual dark suit Uncle
 Arthur wore a brown Harris tweed jacket, light gray slacks with a
 knife-edge crease, a bolo tie and highly polished brogues.
  When Uncle Arthur spoke it was with a sonorous, almostChurchillian
  delivery. A former colleague once remarked that any opinion Arthur
  Nalesworth expressed was as if engraved on tablets of stone.
  After shaking hands with Partridge and Rita and being introduced to
  Cooper, Uncle Arthur said, "I understand you need sixty of my brightest
  and best-if I can assemble that many at short notice. First, though, I
  suggest you tell me what's in the wind."
  "Teddy will do that," Partridge said. He motioned to Cooper to begin.
  Uncle Arthur listened while the British researcher described the attempts
  to identify the kidnappers and the apparent dead end now reached. Cooper
  then outlined his idea of searching through newspaper real estate
  advertising in an attempt to locate the headquarters the kidnappers might
  have used, based on his theory of their renting space within a
  twenty-five-mile radius of the crime scene.
  Partridge added, "We know it's a long shot, Arthur, but at the moment
  it's the best we have."
  "My own experience," Uncle Arthur replied, "is that when you have nothing
  whatever to proceed on, long shots are the way to go."
  "I'm glad you think so, sir," Cooper said.
  Uncle Arthur nodded. "A thing about long shots is that while you seldom
  find exactly what you're looking for, you're likely to stumble over
  something else that will help you in a different way." He added, speaking
  to Cooper directly, "You'll also find, young man, that among the young
  people I'm about to call, some are dynamos, very much like yourself."
  Cooper accompanied Uncle Arthur to his small office where the older man
  spread files and index cards around until they
            The Evening News     303

 covered the surface of his desk. He then began telephoning-a steady
 procession of calls having a common pattern, though each sounding personal
 and as if a familiar friend were on the line.
  ". . . Well, Ian, you said you wanted an opportunity to get into this
  business, no matter how modest, and one has just come up." . . . "No,
  Bernard, I cannot guarantee that two weeks' work will lead to something
  permanent, but why not take a chance? .. . . . .. Quite so, Pamela, I
  agree this temporary job isn't much for a journalism major. Remember,
  though, that some of broadcasting's biggest names began as gofers." . .
  . "Yes, Howard, you're right in saying five dollars fifty cents an hour
  is not a bountiful wage. But if money's your main concern, forget a news
  career and head for Wall Street." . . . "Felix, I do understand the
  timing may not be convenient; it seldom is. If you wish to be a TV news
  person you'll have to walk out, if necessary, on your wife's birthday
  party ... . . . "Don't lose sight of the fact, Erskine, that you'll be
  able to put on your r6sum6 you did a special job for CBA."
  At the end of an hour Uncle Arthur had made twelve calls resulting in
  seven "sures" who would report for work the following day, plus one
  probable. He continued to work patiently through his lists.
  One call made outside his lists by Uncle Arthur was to his longtime
  friend Professor Kenneth K. Goldstein, associate dean of the Columbia
  School of Journalism. When the CBA network problem was explained, the
  educator was instantly sympathetic and helpful.
  While both men knew that heavy scholastic pressures made the involvement
  of undergraduate students impossible, some graduate students working on
  master's degrees in journalism would likely be interested and available.
  So might other recent graduates who had not yet found employment.
  "What we'll do here," the associate dean said, "is rate this an
  emergency. I'll do my best to come up with a dozen or so names and will
  be back to you later."
  "Columbia forever!" Uncle Arthur affirmed, then continued with other
  phoning.
 304        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Teddy Cooper, meanwhile, returned to the conference room to prepare a
  task plan for the temporary workers who would arrive the next day. His
  two assistant researchers had come in to help and together they pored
  over Editor and Publisher International Year Book, local maps and phone
  directories, selecting libraries and newspaper offices to be visited and
  routes and schedules to be followed.
  At the same time Cooper drew up specifications to guide the young
  recruits who would sift through three months of classified advertising
  in some one hundred and sixty newspapers. What would they look for?
  As well as the proviso of being within twenty-five miles of Larchmont,
  Cooper envisaged:

A relatively lonely location with little other activity around. The people
 being sought would want privacy, also the ability to come and go without
 arousing curiosity. Any house or premises in a busy or densely populated
 location should be discounted.
The premises would probably be a small abandoned factory or warehouse, or
 a large house. If a house, most likely old, run-down and therefore not
 much sought after. The house probably with outbuildings having space to
 garage several vehicles and contain a vehicle paint shop. An untenanted
 farm a strong possibility. Other types of accommodation matching the
 general concept to be looked for and imagination utilized.
Living accommodation for at least four or five people and possibly other
 housing space. However, the occupants would be capable of "roughing it,"
 so living quarters might not be evident in any advertised description. (In
 "other housing" Cooper mentally included imprisonment of the kidnap
 victims, but would not mention that specifically.)
The location and premises might be undesirable to someone seeking normal
 business space or somewhere to live. Therefore special attention should
 be paid to any advertisement appearing for an extended time, then abruptly
 stopping.
            The Evening News     305

  That sequence might indicate no takers, followed by a sud-
  den renting or sale for an unusual purpose.
  The cost of renting, leasing or even ownership should not
  be a factor in the advertising search. The people being pur-
  sued almost certainly had ample funds.

  That was sufficient, Cooper decided. While he wanted to convey a broad
  general idea, he didn't wish to be too limiting or discourage initiative.
  He also intended to talk to Uncle Arthur's recruits when they arrived
  early the next day and had asked Rita to arrange a suitable place.
  Shortly after noon, Cooper joined Uncle Arthur for lunch in the CBA News
  cafeteria. Uncle Arthur chose a tuna sandwich and milk, Cooper a
  rectangle of meat covered by glutinous gravy, a canary-yellow pie
  and-with a look of resignation-a cup of warm water and a tea bag.
  "Unfortunately," Uncle Arthur said apologetically, " '21' is closed
  today. Perhaps some other time."
  Because it was Sunday, with fewer people than usual in the building, they
  had a table to themselves. Soon after settling down Cooper began, "I'd
  like to ask you, sir . . ."
  Uncle Arthur stopped him with a gesture. "Your British respect is
  refreshing. But you are now in the land of great leveling where commoners
  address kings as 'Joe' or 'Hey you!' and a decreasing number of people
  use 'Mr.' on an envelope. Here I'm known to all and sundry by my first
  name."
  "Well, Arthur," Cooper said, a shade awkwardly, "I was only wondering how
  you feel about TV news right now compared with when . . . "
  "Compared with the olden days when I counted for something? Well, my
  answer may surprise you. It's much better all around. The people who do
  reporting and producing are an improvement over those in my time,
  including myself. But that's because coverage of the news is always
  getting better. It always has."
  Cooper raised his eyebrows. "Lotsa people feel the other way.,,
 306        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "That's because, my dear Teddy, there are those who suffer from nostalgia
  constipation. What those people need is a mental enema. One way to get
  it is to visit the Museum of Broadcasting here in New York and watch-as
  I did recentlysome of the old news broadcasts, from the sixties for
  example. Measured by the standards of today, most seem weak, even
  amateurish, and I speak not just of technical quality but the depth of
  journalistic probing."
  "Some who don't like us say nowadays we probe too much."
  "A criticism coming usually from those with something to hide."
  As Cooper chuckled, Uncle Arthur continued expansively, "One measure of
  our improving journalism is that fewer things which ought to be exposed
  stay hidden. Abuses of the public trust are dragged into the open. Of
  course, even the good people in public life pay penalties for that. Their
  loss of privacy is one. But in the end society is better served."
  "So you don't think the old-time reporters were better than those today?"
  "Not only were they not better, but most didn't have the ruthlessness,
  the indifference to authority, the willingness to go for the jugular that
  a first-rate newsperson requires today. Of course, the old reporters were
  good by the standards of their times and a few were exceptional. But even
  those, if around today, would be embarrassed by the sainthood now
  conferred on them."
  Cooper wrinkled his eyes in curiosity. "Sainthood?"
  "Oh, yes. Didn't you know we dedicated news people regard our calling as
  a religion? We use buzz words like news being a 'sacred trust.' We
  pontificate about a 'golden age of television'-in the past, naturally-and
  then we canonize our journalistic stars. Over at CBS they've created
  Saint Ed Murrow-who was outstanding, no doubt about it. But Ed had his
  worldly weaknesses, though legend prefers to overlook them. Eventually
  CBS will create Saint Cronkite, though Walter, I'm afraid, will have to
  die first. A living person can't sustain such eminence. And that's just
  CBS, the senior news establishment.
            The Evening News     307

 The other, younger networks will create their saints in timeABC inevitably
 will have Saint Arledge. After all, Roone, more than any other single
 person, shaped network news into its modem form."
  Uncle Arthur rose. "Listening to your views, my dear Teddy, has been most
  enlightening. But I must now return to that ubiquitous master of our
  lives, the telephone."
  By the end of the day Uncle Arthur made known that fiftyeight of his
  "brightest and best" would be reporting for duty Monday morning.

  Early on Sunday the Learjet 55LR entered airspace over San Martin
  Province in the sparsely populated Selva, or jungle, region of Peru.
  Aboard the jet Jessica, Nicholas and Angus Sloane were still in caskets
  and sedated.
  After a five-and-a-quarter-hour flight from Opa Locka, Florida, the Lear
  was nearing its destination-Sion airstrip in the Andes foothills. The
  local time was 4:15 A.M.
  On the dimly lighted flight deck both pilots craned forward, their eyes
  searching the darkness ahead. The airplane's altitude was 3,500 feet
  above sea level, though only 1,000 feet above the jungle floor below. Not
  far ahead were high mountain ranges.
  Eighteen minutes earlier they had left a regular airway with its
  dependable radio beacons and, to locate the airstrip, had switched to a
  GNS-500 VLF navigation system, a device so precise that pilots sometimes
  described it as "able to find a pimple on a fly's ass." However, when
  they were near or over the airstrip, there should be a visual signal from
  the ground.
  They had reduced airspeed substantially, but were still cruising at more
  than 300 knots.
  The copilot, Faulkner, was first to see the white light of the ground
  beacon. It flashed three times, then went out, but not
 308        ARTHUR HAILEY

 before Faulkner, who was at the controls, had put the aircraft into a turn
 and settled on a compass heading to where the light had been.
  Captain Underhill, who had seen the light a moment after Faulkner, was
  now busy with a radio, using a special frequency and a message in code.
  'Atenci6n, amigos de Huallaga. tste es el avi6n Ea Dorada.'Les traemos
  el embarque Pizarro."
  The prearranged call sign had been given to Underhill when the charter
  was negotiated. It worked, and a reply shot back, "Somos sus amigos de
  la tierra. Les estamos esperando. Ea Dorada, ' se Puede aterrizar. No hay
  viento. "
  The permission to land was welcome, but the news of no ground wind to
  help slow the heavy 55LR was not. However, as Underhill transmitted an
  acknowledgment, the same beacon light came on again and continued
  flashing intermittently. Moments later, beyond it, three flares sprang
  into view along the hard-dirt strip. Underhill, who had been here twice
  before, was sure the radio that had just been used was hand-held field
  equipment and probably carried on the same truck as a portable
  searchlight. The sophisticated gear did not surprise him. Drug
  traffickers frequently landed here, and when it came to equipment the
  drug cartels spent freely.
  "I'll take us in," Underhill said, and the copilot surrendered the
  controls.
  Staying a thousand feet above the ground, the pilot made a pass over the
  area, sizing up what little could be seen of the airstrip and gauging his
  approach. He knew they would need every foot of ground available, knew
  too there were trees and heavy foliage on both sides of the landing
  strip, so for all reasons, touchdown would have to be perfectly placed.
  Satisfied, he began an approach pattern, swinging onto a downwind leg,
  flying parallel with the strip and losing height.
  Beside him, Faulkner was performing a pre-landing check. At "gear down,"
  the rumble of descending wheels began. As they turned left onto a base
  leg, the landing gear's three green lights winked on.
  On final approach their two bright landing lights sliced the darkness
  ahead and Underhill let the speed fall back to 120
            The Evening News     309

 knots. He found himself wishing this landing could have been in daylight,
 but they had too little fuel to stooge around until sunrise at six
 o'clock. As the strip became nearer, Underhill realized they were too
 high. He reduced power. Now the threshold was barely fifty feet distant.
 Throttles right back, power off, trimmed at nearly full nose-up. This was
 it! They touched the rough, uneven ground with a bump. Hard rudder to stay
 straight, those trees a blur of shadows in the landing lights. Reverse
 thrust . . . brakes! Now they had passed the middle flare and were
 slowing. Was it slow enough? The end of the strip was disconcertingly
 close, but speed was almost off. They were going to make it and they
 did-with nothing to spare.
  "Nice," Faulkner said. He didn't like Underhill much; his superior was
  selfish, inconsiderate and usually aloof. Just the same he was a superb
  pilot.
  As Underhill swung the Lear around and taxied back toward the approach
  end of the airstrip, they caught glimpses of a truck and several moving
  figures. Beyond the truck and off to one side was a small, roughly
  constructed hut, beside it a dozen or to metal drums.
  "There's our fuel," Underhill said, pointing. "Those guys will help you
  pump it in, and do it fast because I want us the hell out of here at
  first light." Bogotd, Colombia, was their next destination and the
  culmination of this charter. Once airborne, it would be a short and easy
  flight.
  Something else Underhill knew was that this area of jungle was a
  no-man's-land, regularly fought over by Sendero Luminoso, the Peruvian
  Army, and sometimes the government's anti-terrorism police. With all
  three groups noted for extreme brutality, it was not a place to linger.
  But the Learjet's passengers would be disembarking here, so Underhill
  motioned to Faulkner who reached behind him and opened the door between
  the flight deck and the main cabin.

  Miguel, Socorro, Rafael and Baudelio were relieved to be on the ground
  after the descent through darkness. But with relief came an awareness
  that a new part of their enterprise was be-
   310        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ginning. In particular, Baudelio, who had been monitoring the caskets with
 external instruments, began to diminish the sedation, knowing that very soon
 the caskets would be opened and his patients-as he continued to think of
 them-removed.
  Moments later the Leadet stopped, the engines fell silent and Faulkner left
  his seat to open the clamshell door. In sudden contrast to the controlled
  temperature inside, the outside air was suffocatingly hot and humid.
  As the airplane's occupants filed out it was evident that the attention and
  respect of those waiting on the ground were focused on Miguel and Socorro.
  Obviously, Miguel's reception was due to his role as leader and Socorro's
  because of her affiliation with Sendero Luminoso.
  The waiting force comprised eight men. Even in the darkness, reflected
  light made it possible to see their light brown, weathered faces and that
  all were sturdy peasant types, stockily built. The youngest-looking of the
  eight stepped forward and quickly identified himself as Gustavo. To Miguel
  he said, "Tenemos ordenes de ayudarle cuando lo necesite, sefior. "
  Having acknowledged his willingness to accept orders, Gustavo turned to
  Socorro with a bow, "Sefiora, la destinacion de sus prisioneros serd Nueva
  Esperanza. El viaje serd noventa kilometros, la mayor parte par el rib. El
  barco est6 listo. "
  Underhill emerged in time to hear the last exchange. He asked sharply,
  "What prisoners are to be taken ninety kilometers by boat?"
  Miguel had not wanted Underhill to hear the name of their final
  destination, Nueva Esperanza. But in any case he had had more than enough
  of this imperious pilot, remembering the greeting at Teterboro, "Goddamn,
  you're late!" and other times during the journey when the pilot's hostility
  had been thinly veiled. Now that Miguel was on ground where the other man
  had no authority, he said contemptuously, "This is not your business."
  Underhill snapped back, "Everything that happens in this airplane is my
  business." He glanced toward the caskets. Originally he had insisted that
  the less he knew about them, the
            The Evening News     311

 better. Now, more from instinct than reason, he decided for his own
 protection later he had better know. "What is in those?"
  Ignoring the pilot, Miguel told Gustavo, "Digale a los hornbres que
  descarguen los ataudes cuidadosamente sin moverlos dernasiado, y que los
  11even adentro de la choza. "
  "No!" It was Underhill. He blocked the clarnshell doorway. "You will not
  unload those caskets until you have answered me!" Already, responding to
  the heat, sweat was streaming down his face and balding head.
  Miguel caught Gustavo's eye and nodded. Instantly there was a flurry of
  movement, a series of sharp metallic clicks and Underhill found himself
  looking into the barrels of six Kalashnikov rifles, all held steady by
  the ground-force men, safeties off, their fingers curled around the
  triggers.
  With sudden nervousness the pilot called out, "For chrissakes, all
  right!" His eyes swung from the weapons to Miguel. "You've made your
  point. Just let us take on fuel and get out of here."
  Ignoring the request, Miguel snarled, "Move your ass away from that
  door!" When Underhill had done so, Miguel nodded again, the rifles were
  lowered and four of the ground men entered the airplane, going to the
  caskets. The copilot accompanied them, releasing the cargo straps, then
  one by one the caskets were unloaded and carried into the small hut.
  Baudelio and Socorro followed.

  An hour and a half had passed since the Learjet's landing and now, a few
  minutes before sunrise, the landing strip and its surroundings were
  becoming clearer. During the intervening time the Learjet had been
  refueled for the flight to Bogotd, the fuel taken from the drums and
  transferred through a portable pump. Underhill was now looking for Miguel
  to inform him of their imminent departure.
  Miguel and the others were in the makeshift hut, Gustavo indicated.
  Underhill walked toward it.
  The hut door was partially closed and, hearing voices inside, the pilot
  pushed it open. The next instant he stoppedshocked and horrified at what
  he saw.
 312        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Seated on the dirt floor of the hut were three figures, their backs to the
  wall, heads lolling, mouths open, comatose but certainly alive. Two of the
  caskets taken from the Lea~et-now open and empty-had been placed on either
  side of the trio to help prop them up. A single oil lantern illuminated the
  scene.
  Underhill knew immediately who the three were. It was impossible not to
  know. He listened daily to U.S. radio news and read American newspapers,
  available at foreign airports and hotels. Colombian news media, too, had
  carried reports about the kidnapped family of a famous U.S. anchorman.
  Fear, icy fear, crept over Denis Underhill. He had skirted the borderlines
  of crime before-anyone flying Latin American charters inevitably did. But
  he had never, ever before, been involved in anything as utterly felonious
  as this. He knew, without having to think about it, that if his role in
  conveying these people became known in the U.S., he could go to jail for
  life.
  He knew others in the hut were watching him-the three men and the woman who
  had been his passengers from Teterboro through Opa Locka to Sion. They too
  appeared to have been startled by his entry.
  It was at that moment that the semiconscious woman on the ground stirred.
  She raised her head weakly. Looking directly at Underhill, her eyes came
  into focus and she moved her lips though no sound emerged. Then she managed
  to gasp, "Help . . . please help . . . tell someone . . . "Abruptly her
  eyes lost their focus, her head slumped forward.
  From the far side of the hut a figure moved quickly toward Underhill. It
  was Miguel. With a Makarov nine-millimeter pistol in his hand, he motioned.
  "Out!"
  Underhill moved ahead of Miguel and his gun to the jungle outside. There,
  Miguel said matter-of-factly, "I can kill you now. No one will care."
  A sense of numbness overwhelmed Underhill. He shrugged. "You've done me in
  anyway, you bastard. You've made me part of kidnapping those people, so
  whatever comes next won't make a helluva lot of difference." His eyes
  dropped to the Makarov; the safety catch was off. Well, it figured, he
  thought. He had been in tight situations before and this looked like one
            The Evening News     313

 he wouldn't get out of. He had known others like this thug Palacios--or
 whatever his real name was. A human life meant nothing to them, snuffing
 one out no more than spitting in the dust. He just hoped the guy would
 shoot straight. That way it should be quick and painless . . . Why hadn't
 he done it yet? . . . Suddenly, despite his reasoning, desperate fear
 seized Underhill. Though sweat still poured from him, he was shivering.
 He opened his mouth to plead, but saliva filled it and words failed him.
  For some reason, he perceived, the man facing him with the gun was
  hesitating.
  In fact, Miguel was calculating. If he killed one pilot, he would have
  to kill both, which meant the Learjet could not be flown out for the time
  being-a complication he could do without. He knew also that the
  airplane's Colombian owner had friends in the Medellin cartel. The owner
  could make trouble . . .
  Miguel thumbed the safety on. He said menacingly, "Maybe you just thought
  you saw something. Maybe you didn't after all. Maybe, this whole journey,
  you saw nothing."
  Underhill's mind flashed a message: For a reason he didn't understand,
  he was being given a chance. He responded hastily, breathlessly, "That's
  right. Didn't see a goddamn thing."
  "Get the fucking airplane out of here," Miguel snarled, "and afterward
  keep your mouth shut. If you don't, I promise wherever you are you'll be
  found and killed. Is that clear?"
  Trembling with relief, knowing he had been closer to death than ever
  before in his life, and also that the closing threat was real, Underhill
  nodded. "It's clear." Then he turned and walked back to the airstrip.

  Morning mist and broken cloud hung over the jungle. The Learjet passed
  through it as they climbed. The ascending sun was blurry amid haze, the
  sign of a scorching, steamy day ahead for those left on the ground.
  But Underhill, going through piloting motions automatically, was thinking
  only of what lay ahead.
  He reasoned that Faulkner, seated beside him, hadn't seen
 314        ARTHUR HAILEY

 the Sloane family captives and knew nothing of Underhill's involvement or
 what had happened just a few minutes ago. And they would keep it that way.
 Not only was there no need for Faulkner to be told now that there had been
 live, kidnapped people in those caskets they had carried, but if he
 weren't told, the copilot could swear later on that Underhill didn't know
 either.
  That was the essential thing for Underhill to insist on whenever inquiry
  was made, as he was certain it would be: He didn't know. From beginning
  to end, he didn't know about the Sloanes.
  Would he be believed? Perhaps not, but it didn't matter, he thought with
  growing confidence. It made no difference as long as there was no one who
  could prove the contrary.
  He was reminded of the woman who had spoken to him. Her name was Jessica,
  he recalled from the reports. Would she remember seeing him? Could she
  identify him later? Considering her state, it was highly unlikely. It was
  also unlikely, the more he thought about it, that she would ever leave
  Peru alive.
  He signaled for Faulkner to take over the flying. Leaning back in his
  seat, the hint of a smile crossed the senior pilot's face.
  At no point did Underhill give any thought to a possible rescue of the
  Sloane family captives. Nor did he consider reporting to authorities who
  was holding them and where.

                3

 After less than three full days of investigation an important success had
 been achieved by the CBA News special task force.
  In Larchmont, New York, an infamous Colombian terrorist, Ulises
  Rodriguez, had been positively identified as one of the kidnappers of the
  Sloane family trio and, perhaps, the leader of the kidnap gang.
            The Evening News     315

  On Sunday morning-as had been promised the preceding day-a copy of a
  charcoal sketch of Rodriguez, drawn twenty years earlier by a fellow
  student at the University of California at Berkeley, arrived at CBA News
  headquarters. Producer Karl Owens, who had uncovered Rodriguez's name
  through contacts in BogotA and U.S. Immigration, personally received the
  sketch and later took it to Larchmont. A camera crew and a hastily
  summoned New York correspondent accompanied him.
  As the camera rolled, Owens had the correspondent show six photos to
  Priscilla Rhea, the retired schoolteacher who had witnessed the kidnap
  on the Grand Union parking lot. One photo was of the Rodriguez sketch,
  the other five had been taken from files and were of men of similar
  appearance. Miss Rhea pointed instantly to the Rodriguez picture.
  "That's him. That's the one who shouted that they were making a movie.
  He's younger in the picture, but it's the same man. I'd know him
  anywhere." She added, "When I saw him, it seemed he was in charge."
  At this point CBA News had the information exclusively.
  (It was not, of course, known that Ulises Rodriguez was using the code
  name Miguel or that during the Learjet flight to Peru he employed the
  alias Pedro Palacios. But since a terrorist habitually used many names,
  this was not important.)
  The discovery was discussed late Sunday at an informal session by four
  task force members-Harry Partridge, Rita Abrams, Karl Owens and Iris
  Everly, Owens, justly pleased by his breakthrough, urged that the new
  development be included in Monday's edition of the National Evening News.
  When Partridge hesitated, Owens argued forcefully.
  "Look, Harry, no one else has this yet. We're ahead of the whole pack.
  If we go on air tomorrow, everyone else will pick it up and have to give
  us credit which includes--even though we know they hate doing it-the New
  York Times and Washington Post. But if we hold off and wait too long,
  word about Rodriguez may get out and we'll lose our exclusive. You know
  as well as I do, people talk. There's the Rhea woman in Larchmont; she
  may tell someone and they'll pass it on. Even our own
 316        ARTHUR HAILEY

 people blab, and there's a chance of someone at another network hearing."
  "I second all that," Iris Everly said. "You're expecting me to do a
  follow-up tomorrow, Harry. Without Rodriguez, I have nothing new."
  "I know," Partridge said. "I'm thinking about going with it, but there are
  also some reasons to wait. I won't make a decision until tomorrow."
  With that, the others had to be content.
  One decision Partridge made privately was that Crawford Sloane must be
  informed of the fresh discovery. Crawf, he reasoned, was suffering such
  mental agony that any forward step, even though an inconclusive one, would
  come as a relief. Late as it was-nearing 10 P.m.-Partridge decided to visit
  Sloane himself Obviously he could not telephone. All phone calls to
  Sloane's Larchmont house were being monitored by the FBI and Partridge was
  not ready yet to give the FBI the new information.
  Using a phone in his temporary private office, he ordered a CBA car and
  driver to meet him at the news building's main entrance.

  "I'm grateful you came out, Harry," Crawford Sloane said after Partridge
  made his report. "Will you go on air with this tomorrow?"
  "I'm not sure." Partridge described his reasoning both ways, adding, "I
  want to sleep on it."
  They were having drinks in the living room where, only four evenings
  earlier, Sloane thought sadly, he had sat talking with Jessica and Nicholas
  after his own return from work.
  On Partridge's way in, an FBI agent had regarded him inquiringly. The agent
  was substituting that night for Otis Havelock who was at home with his
  family. But Sloane had firmly closed the door connecting with the outside
  hallway and the two newsmen talked in low voices.
  "Whatever you decide," Sloane said, "I'll back your judgment. Either way,
  do you have enough reason to take off for Colombia?"
            The Evening News     317

  Partridge shook his head. "Not yet, because Rodriguez is a gun-for-hire.
  He's operated all over Latin America, Europe too. So I need to know
  more-specifically, where this operation is based. Tomorrow I'll work the
  phones again. The others will do the same."
  One call in particular Partridge intended to make was to the lawyer for
  organized crime figures he had spoken to on Friday, but who hadn't yet
  called back. Instinct told him that anyone operating in the U.S. as
  Rodriguez appeared to have done would need an organized crime connection.
  As Partridge was leaving, Sloane put his hand on the other's shoulder.
  "Harry, my friend," he said, his voice emotional, "I've come to believe
  that the only -chance I have of getting Jessica, Nicky and my Dad back
  is through you." He hesitated, then went on. "I guess there have been
  times when you and I weren't the closest companions, or even allies, and
  whatever's been my fault in that, I'm sorry. But apart from that, I just
  want you to know that most of what I have and care about in this world
  is riding on you."
  Partridge tried to find words to reply, but couldn't. Instead he nodded
  several times, touched Sloane on the shoulder too, and said, "Good
  night."

  "Where to, Mr. Partridge?" the CBA driver inquired.
  It was close to midnight and Partridge answered tiredly, "The
  Inter-Continental Hotel, please."
  Leaning back in the car and remembering Sloane's parting words, Partridge
  thought that, yes, he did know what it meant to have lost, or face the
  chance of losing, someone you loved. In his own case, long ago, there had
  first been Jessica, though the circumstances then were in no way
  comparable to Crawf's desperate situation now. Then later there was Gemma
  . . .
  He stopped. Not He would not let himself think of Gemma tonight. The
  remembrance of her had come back to him so much lately . . . it seemed
  to happen with tiredness . . . and always, along with memory, there was
  pain.
  Instead, he forced his mind back to Crawf who, in circumstances equally
  dire as those affecting Jessica, was also suffering
 318        ARTHUR BAILEY

 the loss of a child, his son. Partridge himself had never known what it was
 to have a child. Still, he knew that the loss of one must be unbearable,
 perhaps the most unbearable burden of all. He and Gemma had wanted children
 . . .
  He sighed . . . Oh, dearest Gemma . . .
  He gave in . . . relaxed as the smoothly moving car closed the distance to
  Manhattan . . . allowed his mind to drift.

  For always, after that simple marriage ceremony in Panama City when he and
  Gemma stood before the municipal juez in his cotton guayabera and took
  their unpretentious vows, Partridge nursed a conviction that simple
  ceremonies produced the better marriages andflamboyant, ritzier circuses
  were more likely to be followed by divorce.
  He admitted it was a prejudice, based heavily on his own experience. His
  first marriage, in Canada, had begun with a "white wedding" complete with
  bridesmaids, several hundred guests and incantations in a church-the
  bride's mother insisting on it all-and preceded by theatrical rehearsals
  which seemed to rob the ceremony itself of meaning. Afterward the marriage
  simply didn't work, something Partridge conceded to be at leastfifty
  percent hisfault, and the rhetorical pledge of "until death us do part"
  was-by mutual agreement, this time in court before a judge-shortened to a
  year.
  The marriage to Gemma, however, from its unlikely beginning aboard the
  Pope's airplane, had strengthened as their love had grown. At no point in
  his life had Partridge ever been happier.
  He continued to be the network's correspondent in Rome where foreign
  journalists were able, as a colleague working for CBS expressed it, "to
  live like kings. " Almost at once after returning from the papal flight
  Partridge and Gemma found an apartment in a sixteenth-century palazzo.
  Located midway between the Spanish Steps and the Trevi Fountain, it had
  eight rooms and three balconies. In those days, when networks consumed
  money as if there were no tomorrow, correspondents found their own
  accommodation and were reimbursed More recently, with leaner budgets and
  accountants in catbird seats,
            The Evening News     319

 the network supplied living quarters--of lesser quality and cheaper.
  As it was, on looking over what would be theirfirst home, Gemma declared,
  "Harry, niio amore, it is heaven now. I will make it seven heavens for
  you. " And she did.
  Gemma had a giftfor imparting laughter andjoy and love of living. As
  well, she ran the home proficiently and was a superb cook What she could
  not do, as Partridge quickly learned, was manage money or balance a
  checkbook K%en Gemma wrote a check she often forgot to fill in a
  counterfoil, so the balance in their account was invariably less than she
  believed Coupled with that, even when she remembered the counterfoil her
  arithmetic was unreliable-she would sometimes add instead of subtractso
  that Gemma and the bank were constantly at odds. "Harry, tesoro," she
  complained after one stern lecture from the manager, "bankers have no
  tenderness. They are . . . what is that English word?"
  He said, amused, "How about pragmatic?"
  "Oh, Harry, you have such a clever mind! Yes, " Gemma said decisively,
  "bankers are too pragmatic. "
  Partridgefound the solution easy. He simply took over their
  householdfinances, which seemed a small contribution in return for the
  many agreeable condiments now added to his life.
  Another problem with Gemma required more delicate handling. She adored
  cars, owned a dilapidated Alfa Romeo and, like many other Italians, drove
  like a crazed fiend There were times when Partridge, seated beside her
  either in the Affia or his own BMW, which she enjoyed driving too, closed
  his eyes, convinced that disaster was about to happen. Each time it
  didn't, he equated himself with a cat having lost one more of its nine
  lives.
  He was down tofour when he summoned the courage to ask Gemma if she would
  consider not driving anymore. "It's because I love you so much, " he
  assured her. "R%en I'm away I have nightmares, dreading something may
  happen with the car and you may be hurt when I get back. "
  "But Harry, " Gemma protested, not understanding at all, "I am a safe,
  prudente driver. "
  For the moment Partridge left it there, though managing to
 320        ARTHUR HAILEY

 bring the subject up again from time to time, his revised strategy being
 that Gemma was indeed a safe driver but he himself was neurotically
 nervous. The best he could get, though, was a conditional promise.
  "Mio amore, as soon as I am pregnant I will not drive a car. That I swear
  to you. "
  It was a reminder of how much they both wanted children. "At least three,
  " Gemma announced soon after their marriage and Partridge saw no reason
  to disagree.
  Meanwhile he traveled awayfrom Rome periodically on CBA News assignments
  and, at the beginning, Gemma continued with her stewardess job. Very
  quickly, though, it became evident they would see little of each other
  that way because sometimes when Partridge returnedfrom a trip Gemma would
  beflying; at others the reverse was true. It was Gemma who decided she
  would make the adjustment for them both by ceasing to fly.
  Fortunately, when she let it be known at Alitalia that she was prepared
  to quit, the airline assigned her to ground duties that kept her
  permanently in Rome. Both Gemma and Partridge were delighted because now
  they had much more time together.
  They used their spare hours to explore and enjoy Rome, dipping into its
  millennium of history about which, Partridge discovered, Gemma's mind
  held a treasure trove of bric-a-brac.
  "The Emperor Augustus, Harr)x.-he was Julius Caesar's stepson-started
  afire brigade of slaves. But there was a big fire they didn'tput out, so
  he got rid of the slaves and hadfreemen as firemen, vigiles, who were
  better. That's because people who are free want to put out fires."
  Partridge said doubtfully, "Is all that true?" Gemma only smiled, though
  later research showed him she was right and that the switch to freemen
  happened in A.D. 6 Subsequently, when the United Nations held a Freedom
  Symposium in Rome, which Partridge covered, he adroitly slipped the
  ancient fire brigade story into his CBA News script.
  On another occasion: "The Sistine Chapel, Harry, where new popes are
  chosen, was named after Pope Sixtus IV He licensed brothels in Rome and
  had sons, one by his own sister. He made three of his sons cardinals. "
            The Evening News     321

  An& "Our famous Spanish Steps, Scala di Spagna, have a wrongful name.
  They ought to be Scala di Francia. The French suggested the steps, a
  Frenchman left the money for them in his will. The Spanish
  Embassy-poofl-just happened to be there. Spain had nothing, nothing,
  Harry, to do with those steps at all. "
  When work and time permitted, Partridge and Gemma journeyed farther
  afield to Florence, Venice and Pisa. It was while returningfrom Florence
  by train that Gemma appeared pale and excused herself several times to
  enter the toilet. When Partridge expressed concern, she dismissed it as
  unimportant. "I probably ate something I should not. Do not worry. "
  In Rome, away from the train, Gemma seemed her normal self and next day
  Partridge went as usual to the CBA bureau. In the evening, however, when
  he returned home he was surprised to find an extra small plate at his
  dinner place and, on it, the keys of Gemma's Alfa Romeo. R%en he asked
  about them, Gemma, a small smile on herface, answered, "A promise isfor
  keeping. "
  For a moment he was puzzled, then with a surge of love and a shout of
  joy, he remembered her statement, "As soon as I am pregnant I will not
  drive a car. "
  Gemma had tears of happiness in her eyes as they kissed and held each
  other tightly.

  One week later Partridge received wordfrom CBA News that he would no
  longer be Rome correspondent and was being given a more important
  assignment--as senior correspondent in London.
  His immediate reaction was to wonder how Gemma would feel about the
  change. He need not have been concerned.
  "It is wondrous news, Harry caro," she told him. "I adore London. Iflew
  there with Alitalia. We will make a good life there together. "

  "We're here, Mr. Partridge."
  Partridge, who had closed his eyes in the CBA car-momentarily, as he
  thought--opened them to discover they had reached Manhattan and were on
  Forty-eighth Street outside the
 322        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Inter-Continental Hotel. He thanked the driver, said good night, then
 went inside.
  In the elevator on the way to his room he realized it was now
  Monday-the beginning of what was likely to be a crucial week.

                4

 Jessica was trying desperately to hold on to awareness, to keep her mind
 functioning and to understand what was going on around her, but mostly she
 was not succeeding. She would have moments of clarity in which she could
 see other people and feel her own body-its pain and discomfort, nausea,
 an acute thirst. Yet even while this was happening, panic possessed her
 with one dominating thought: Nickyl "ere was he? "at had happened? Then
 abruptly everything would ebb away, becoming a swirling, misty montage in
 which she could grasp nothing mentally, not even who she was. During such
 lapses she seemed engulfed by some sluggish, opaque liquid.
  Somehow, even while teetering in and out of consciousness, she managed
  to hold on to memories of what she had briefly perceived. She knew that
  something which had been connected to her arm was now removed and in its
  place was a throbbing ache. She was aware of being helped from some
  resting place, then partly walked and partly carried to wherever she was
  now seated, which seemed-again in moments of awareness-to be a flat
  surface. There was something solid-she wasn't sure what -behind her back.
  In between such thoughts, as fright and panic returned, she tried to tell
  herself what she knew to be important: Keep controll
  One thing she was clear about was the sudden sight, and now the memory,
  of a man. The image of him was sharp and strong. He was tall and partly
  bald, held himself straight, and
            The Evening News     323

 looked as if he had authority. It was that impression of authority which
 made her attempt to speak to him, to plead for help. She knew he had been
 startled by her voice; that response was also precisely etched, though the
 reality of the man had disappeared. But did her plea get through? Would
 he return to help? . . . Oh godl Who knew?
  Now . . . once more awareness had swirled in. There was another man, this
  time leaning over her . . . Waid She had seen this one before, recognized
  his cadaverous face . . . Yesl Just minutes ago, while she was
  desperately fighting with some kind of knife, she had slashed his face,
  seen blood spurt out . . . But why wasn't he bleeding now? How was it
  that his face was bandaged?
  In Jessica's mind her long interval of unconsciousness did not exist .
  . .
  She reasoned: This man was an enemy. Now she remembered: He had done
  something to Nicky. Oh, how she hated him/ . . . Wild anger sent
  adrenaline pumping, brought back movement to her limbs. She reached up,
  seized the adhesive bandage and pulled it off. Then, following through,
  her nails raked flesh and scab.
  With a startled cry, Baudelio leaped back. Putting a hand to his cheek,
  it came away red with blood . . . That goddamn womanl She had messed up
  his face again. Instinctively he had been thinking like a doctor, and of
  her as a patient, but not now! Enraged, he clenched a fist, leaned
  forward and hit her hard.
  An instant later, for clinical reasons, he regretted having done it. He
  had wanted to see how far all three captives were advanced in
  consciousness-up to this point they had come out of sedation
  satisfactorily and their pulses and breathing were okay. The woman had
  seemed a little ahead of the others. He thought ruefully: She had just
  proved it.
  They would all suffer aftereffects, of course-from his anesthesiology
  experience he knew them well. There would be a sense of confusion
  probably followed by depression, some numbness, a severe headache, almost
  certainly nausea. The general effect would be much like a drunkard's
  hangover. They
 324        ARTHUR HAILEY

 should all be given water soon; he would attend to that. No food, though-at
 least not until they had reached their next destination. Hell camp, Baudelio
 thought.
  Socorro appeared beside him and he told her about the need for water. She
  nodded and went out to see what she could find. Paradoxically, as Baudelio
  knew, in this sparsely inhabited, damp jungle, drinking water was a
  problem. Rivers and streams, though plentiful, were fouled by
  chemicals-sulfuric acid, kerosene and other by-products used by drug
  dealers in transforming coca leaves into coca paste, the substance of co-
  caine. As well, there were dangers of malaria and typhoid, so that even
  impoverished peasants drank soft drinks, beer and, when possible, boiled
  water.
  Miguel had entered the hut in time to see the incident involving Jessica
  and Baudelio and hear the latter's instruction to Socorro. He called after
  her, "And get something to tic these scumbags' hands, then do it-behind
  their backs."
  Turning to Baudelio, Miguel ordered, "Get the prisoners ready to move.
  First we go by truck. After that, everyone will walk."
  Jessica, now only feigning unconsciousness, heard it all.
  In hitting her, Baudelio had actually done a favor. The blow's jolting
  effect had brought her borderline awareness suddenly into focus. She now
  knew who she was and memory was returning. But instinct cautioned her to
  keep that knowledge, for the moment, to herself.
  She knew she had been frightened and panicked a few minutes ago, but now
  must try to keep her thinking orderly. First: Where was she? How had she
  got here?
  Answers accumulated . . . Everything was coming back.The Grand Union
  supermarket and the report conveyed to her about Crawford and an
  accident-obviously a lie. Then in the parking lot, the brutal seizure of
  herself, Nicky and . . .
  Nickyl Had he heen harmed? Where was he now?
  Still striving to maintain control, she remembered glimpsing Nicky briefly
  on some kind of bed, tied down . . . and so was Angus. Oh, poor Angusl
  She'd seen them while she struggled with the man and cut his face . . . Was
  she still in that
            The Evening News     325

 same place? She didn't think so. More important, was Nicky with her?
 Barely opening her eyes, keeping her head low, she shifted to look. Oh,
 thank godl Nicky was right alongsidel His eyes were opening and closing;
 he was yawning.
  And Angus? Yesl Angus was beyond Nicky, eyes closed, but she could see
  that he was breathing.
  Which raised the question: Why had the three of them been taken? She
  decided the answer to that would have to be postponed.
  More immediately: "ere were they? Jessica's quick glimpses of this place
  had shown her a small semidarkened room, windowless and lit by an oil
  lantern. Why no electricity? She and the other two were seated on what
  felt like a dirt floor and she thought she could feel insects, though she
  tried not to think about them. It was incredibly hot and sticky here,
  which puzzled her since September this year had been unusually cool and
  no change was forecast.
  So . . . because this was a different place from where Nicky and Angus
  had been tied down, how had they got here? Had she been drugged? The
  thought caused her to recall something else: the pad over her nose and
  mouth after she had been pulled into the van on the Grand Union parking
  lot.
  She remembered nothing more that happened in the van; therefore she had
  been drugged, probably the other two as well. For how lone. Half an hour,
  she estimated-an hour at the most. The memory of the skirmish on the
  parking lot was too close for it to be more.
  So the likelihood was, they were still not far from Larchmont, which
  meant somewhere in New York State, New Jersey or Connecticut. Jessica
  considered Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, then dismissed them. Both were
  too far away . . . Voices interrupted . . .
  "The bitch is faking," Miguel said.
  "I know," Baudelio replied. "She's fully conscious and thinks she's
  cunning. She's been listening to what we're saying.,,
  Miguel extended his right shoe and shoved it hard into Jessica's ribs.
  "On your feet, bitch! We have places to go."
 326        ARTHUR DAILEY

  The shoe made her wince and because there seemed no advantage in
  pretending, Jessica lifted her head and opened her eyes. She recognized
  both men looking down at her-the one whose face she had cut, the other
  whom she had caught sight of briefly in the van. Her mouth was dry and
  her voice raspy, but she managed to say, "You'll be sorry for this.
  You'll be caught. Punished."
  "Silence!" Miguel used his foot again, this time to kick her stomach.
  "From now on, you will speak only when questioned."
  From beside her, she heard Nicky stir and say, "What's happened? Where
  are we?" She sensed in his voice the same panic she had experienced
  herself
  It was Angus who answered softly, "It looks to me, old son, as if we've
  been kidnapped by some pretty nasty people. But keep your cool! Be
  strong! Your Dad'll find us."
  Jessica, still fighting pain from the savage kick, felt a hand placed on
  her arm and heard Nicky's voice say gently, "Mom, are you okay?"
  Tears sprang to her eyes at the thought that Nicky's concern should be
  for her. Turning her head, she tried to nod reassuringly, only to see
  Nicky being kicked viciously too. In a moment of horror she thought: What
  was all this doing to him?
  Miguel shouted, "That silence rule means you too, idiot boy! Remember
  it!"
  "Oh, he'll remember." It was Angus, his voice dry and cracked, but he
  managed to impart contempt. "Who could forget a piece of human offal, so
  brave he'll kick a helpless woman and a boy?" The old man was struggling
  to rise.
  Jessica breathed, "Angus, don't!" She knew that nothing at this moment
  could improve their situation; hard words would make it worse.
  Angus had trouble balancing and rising to his feet. In the meantime
  Miguel looked around him and seized part of a tree branch lying on the
  floor. He crossed to Angus and belabored him savagely about the head and
  shoulders. The old man fell back, one eye closed where the wood had
  struck him, grunting with the pain.
            The Evening News     327

  "All of you will use that as a lesson!" Miguel barked. "Keep silent!" He
  turned to Baudelio. "Get them ready to go."
  Socorro had returned carrying a water jug in a wicker cover and a length
  of coarse rope.
  "They should have water first," Baudelio said. He added with a hint of
  petulance, "That is, if you want them kept alive."
  "First tie their hands," Miguel ordered. "I want no more trouble."
  Scowling, he left the hut. Outside, as the sun ascended, the humid heat
  was overpowering.

  Jessica was growing increasingly puzzled about their location.
  A few minutes ago she, Nicky and Angus had been moved from what Jessica
  now realized was a crudely constructed hut and were in the grimy back
  portion of an open truck, along with a miscellaneous cargo of crates,
  boxes and sacks. After being marched out of the hut with their hands tied
  behind them, the three were partially lifted, partially shoved roughly
  over the truck's tailgate by several pairs of hands. Then a halfdozen
  motley-dressed men, who could have been farmhands except they carried
  guns, had boarded also, followed by the man Jessica labeled mentally
  "Cutface," and another man whom she remembered vaguely having seen
  before. After that the tailgate was raised and fastened.
  While it was all happening she had concentrated on their surroundings,
  trying to see as much as she could, but it hadn't helped. There were no
  other buildings in view, nothing but dense woodland all around, and the
  dirt track to the hut could scarcely be called a road. She attempted to
  see the truck's hcense plate, but if there was one the lowered tailgate
  covered it.
  Physically, Jessica felt better for having received water. Before leaving
  the hut, Nicky and Angus had been given water too, by a sour-faced woman
  whom Jessica also remembered seeing briefly before-she believed during
  her initial struggle with Cutface.
  Trying to appeal as one woman to another, Jessica whispered softly
  between mouthfuls fed to her from a battered tin
 328        ARTHUR HAILEY

 cup. "Thank you for the water. Pleasel-will you tell me where we are and
 why?"
  The response was harsh and unexpected. Putting down the cup, the woman
  administered two hard slaps, forehand and backhand, to Jessica's face,
  each time sending her reeling sideways. The woman hissed, "You heard the
  order. iSilenciol Speak again and you will go without water for a day."
  After that, Jessica stayed silent. So did Nicky and Angus.
  The same woman was now in the front seat of the truck, next to the driver
  who had just started the engine. Also in front was the man who had kicked
  Jessica and Nicky and beaten Angus. Jessica had heard one of the others
  call him Miguel and he appeared to be in charge. The truck began to move,
  bouncing unevenly over rugged ground.
  The heat was even more intense than in the hut. Perspiration streamed
  from everyone. So where were they? Jessica's notion about being in the
  general area of New York State seemed less plausible every minute.
  Nowhere she could think of would be as hot at this time of year. Unless
  . . .
  Was it possible, Jessica wondered, that she and the others had been
  unconscious, drugged, much longer than she first believed? And if so,
  could they have been taken to someplace much farther away, farther south,
  like Georgia or Arkansas? The more she thought about the type of country
  they were in, the more it resembled the remoter parts of those states,
  and it would be hot there too. The prospect dismayed her because, if
  true, the hope of imminent rescue had just receded.
  Still seeking clues, she began listening to snatches of speech between
  the men with the guns. She recognized the language as Spanish and while
  Jessica didn't speak it, she knew a smattering of words.
  . . . "iMaldito cami6nI Me hace dafio en la espalda.
 'IPor qu6 no te acuestas encima de la mujer? Ella es una buena almohada.
 " . . . Some raucous laughter . . . "No, esperar6 hasta que termine el
 vidje. lEntonces, efla debe tener cuidadol" . . . "Los Sinchis, esos
 cabr6nes, torturaron a mi hermano antes de matarlo. " . . . "El rio no
 puede flegar tan pronto como yo desearia que llegara. La Selva ve y oye
 todo. " . . .
            The Evening News     329

  Hearing them, she supposed they were recent immigrants; so many Hispanics
  nowadays were flooding into the United States. Abruptly she remembered
  the man who first accosted her in the Larchmont supermarket. He spoke
  English with a Spanish accent. Was there a connection? She couldn't think
  of one.
  The thought of Larchmont, though, reminded her of Crawf. What torment he
  must be going through! There was something that Angus had said to Nicky
  in the hut. "Your Dadllfind us. " For sure, by now, Crawf would be moving
  heaven and earth in the search for them, and he had plenty of influence,
  lots of friends in high places who would help. But would they have any
  idea of where to look? Somehow she must discover where they were and
  devise a way to get word back to Crawf.
  Something else Angus had said to Nicky was that they had been kidnapped.
  Jessica hadn't thought that through beforethere hadn't been time--but she
  supposed Angus was right. But why kidnapped? For money? Wasn't that the
  usual reason? Well, sure the Sloanes had money, but not in huge amounts,
  not the kind Crawf sometimes talked about as "industrial or Wall Street
  money."
  And how incredible, Jessica thought, that only last evening -if it was
  last evening; she was losing track of time-Crawf had spoken of the
  possibility of being kidnapped himself . . .
  Her thoughts were distracted by the sight of Nicky. Since the truck began
  moving, Nicky had had trouble keeping his body upright and now, because
  of his tied hands, had slid down horizontally so that with every bump his
  head was hitting the floor.
  Jessica, frantic and unable to help, was about to break silence and
  appeal to Cutface when she saw one of the gun-toting men take notice of
  Nicky's plight and move toward him. Partially lifting Nicky, the man
  moved the boy so his back was against a sack and his feet touching a box,
  ensuring that he wouldn't slip again. Jessica tried to thank the man with
  her eyes and a half smile. In return he gave the slightest of nods. It
  was small reassurance, she thought, but at least there was someone among
  these brutal people who had feelings.
 330        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The man continued to sit near Nicky. He mumbled some words which Nieky,
  having recently begun Spanish lessons at school, seemed to understand.
  As the journey continued, there were two more exchanges between the man
  and the boy.
  After about twenty minutes, at a point where the track they had been
  driving on disappeared and there were only trees, the truck stopped.
  Jessica, Nicky and Angus were again partially shoved and lifted off the
  truck. When they were standing, Miguel came around from the front and
  announced curtly, "From here we walk."
  Gustavo and two other armed men led the way through thick foliage over
  an uneven, barely discernible trail. Leaves and branches pressed in on
  either side and though the trees overhead provided shade, the incredible
  heat persisted amid a constant buzz of insects.
  At moments, the three captives were close together. At one point Nicky
  said in a low voice, "This leads to a river, Mom. Then we're going in a
  boat."
  Jessica whispered back, "Did that man tell you?"
  "Yes."
  Soon after, Jessica heard Angus murmur, "I'm proud of you, Nicky. You're
  being brave."
  It was the first time Jessica had heard Angus's voice since leaving the
  hut. She was relieved the old man was at least coping, though she dreaded
  the effect of this awful experience on him and, for that matter, on Nicky
  too. Jessica still kept wondering about rescue. What were their chances?
  When and how would help arrive?
  Nicky awaited an opportunity, then answered Angus softly, "It's the way
  you told me, Gramps. When you're really scared, hang on."
  With sudden emotion Jessica remembered the conversation at breakfast-the
  four of them, including Crawf, talking about that bombing raid on Germany
  . . . Schweinfurt? . . . What Nicky had said just now was almost exactly
  Angus's words then. And how long ago was that breakfast? . . . Today;
  yesterday; the day before? . . . Again she realized she had lost all
  reckoning of time.
            The Evening News     331

  A little later, Nicky asked, "Gramps, how about you?"
  "There's life in this old dog." Another pause, then, "Jessie -how is it
  with you?"
  At the next opportunity she said, "I've been trying to guess where we
  are. Georgia? Arkansas? Where?"
  It was Nicky who supplied the answer. "They took us out of America, Mom.
  The man told me. We're in Peru."

 "Earlier this morning," Teddy Cooper told the rows of attentive young
 faces in front of him, "I was planning to stand here and spin you a
 cock-W-bull story about why you've been hired and what you'll be doing.
 Like a real smart-ass, I had what I thought was a convincing cover story
 all worked out. But a few minutes ago, after talking to some of you, I
 realized you're all too smart to be taken in. Also, I believe that when
 you know the real facts, you'll leave here keen, tight-lipped and caring.
 So sit up straight, lads and lassies. You're about to be trusted with the
 truth."
  The approach was rewarded by some smiles and continued attention.
  It was 9:30 A.M. Monday. Within the past half hour exactly sixty young
  men and women, the sexes almost equally divided, had reported for
  temporary work at CBA News, Uncle Arthur having persisted with his
  telephoning through Sunday evening to make up the full complement
  required. All were now assembled in the CBA auxiliary building a block
  away from news headquarters, which the preceding Thursday had been used
  for the press conference conducted by Crawford Sloane. On the same sound
  stage, folding chairs had again been set up, facing a lectern.
  Most of the recruits were about twenty-two years old and recent
  university graduates with good scholastic records. They
 332        ARTHUR HAILEY

 were also articulate, competitive and anxious to break into the TV news
 milieu.
  About a third of the group was black and among these was one Uncle Arthur
  had drawn to Cooper's attention-Jonathan Mony. "You may want to use
  Jonathan as a supervisor," the older man advised. "He's a Columbia
  Journalism graduate who's been working as a waiter because he needs the
  money. But if you're as impressed as I am, when this is over maybe the two
  of us can somehow bring him into CBA."
  Mony, who had been one of the earliest to report this morning, had the
  build and agility of a professional basketball player. His features were
  finely cut, with compelling, confident eyes. Mony's voice was a clear
  baritone and he spoke without jargon in concise sentences. His first
  question to Cooper after introducing himself was, "May I help you set this
  up?"
  Cooper, who liked Mony instantly, responded, "Sure," and handed over the
  batch of forms which the network required all of today's newcomers to
  complete. Within minutes, Mony was showing fresh arrivals to seats and
  explaining the forms he had glanced over only moments before.
  Soon after, Cooper asked Mony to make two phone calls and pass along
  messages. Without asking any questions, Mony simply nodded and disappeared.
  A few minutes later he was back, reporting, "Okay, Mr. Cooper. Both answers
  were yes."
  That was ten minutes ago. Now Teddy Cooper was continuing his introductory
  remarks, having paused for effect after telling his audience they would be
  "trusted with the truth."
  "So what this is really all about is the kidnapping-which of course you've
  heard of--of Mrs. Crawford Sloane, Master Nicholas Sloane and Mr. Angus
  Sloane. The work you'll be doing is aimed at helping those kidnap victims
  and is triple-X important. When you leave here you'll be detailed off to
  local newspaper offices and certain libraries where you will read every
  issue published over the past three months. Not just reading, though, but
  Sherlock Holmesing for clues on which I'll brief you, clues which could
  lead us to the body snatchers."
  Interest on the faces before him was now even greater than before,
  accompanied by a hum of conversation which quickly
            The Evening News     333

 quieted as Cooper continued. "As soon as I'm through sounding off up here,
 you'll be divided into groups and given the gen about where to go and what
 to do. Some of the newspaper offices have already been phoned by us this
 morning; they're cooperative and expecting you. At others you'll have to
 introduce yourselves, saying you represent CBA. Before leaving here everyone
 gets a CBA identification card. Save it-a souvenir for your grandchildren.
  "About transport, we have some motors waiting which will take several
  groups each day, dropping off one person at a time at their starting point.
  After that, you'll make your own way. You all have initiative; you'll get
  the chance to use it. Some of you will get where you're going by bus and
  train. Either way, travel expenses are on CBA.
  "You needn't come back here at the end of each day, but you must report by
  telephone-we'll give you numbers-and also call immediately if you find
  anything important."
  The arrangements Teddy Cooper was describing had been worked on through
  Sunday and early this morning by himself, his two assistant researchers and
  a secretary borrowed from the news staff. Some backup work, including
  phoning local papers, was continuing.
  "Now," Cooper declared, "that was for starters. Next let's get to the big
  picture. Somewhere about now you should be getting several sheets of paper
  . . . Yes, here they are."
  The ebullient Jonathan Mony had been consulting with Cooper's assistants,
  busy at a desk across the room. Mony now returned, burdened by a pile of
  papers---copies of the task plan and guidelines developed yesterday by
  Cooper and printed overnight. Mony began handing copies to his fellow
  temporaries.
  ,,When you get to those local newspaper offices," Cooper said, "You'll ask
  first to see issues published three months back from last Thursday-that is,
  starting June 14. When you have them in front of you, go to classified ads
  for estate agents and look for any ad offering to rent a small factory, or
  a warehouse, or a large old house-but not just any old place like that .
  . .
 334        ARTHUR HAILEY

 and to get specific, let's turn to page one of those notes you just
 received."
  As he explained his reasoning and planning, Teddy Cooper was relieved
  about his decision to disclose the truth. How much or how little he
  should tell these helpers had been left to his discretion, and now not
  using a bogus story made everything simpler. There were risks involved,
  of course. One was the chance that what CBA News was attempting would
  become known to a competitor, another network perhaps, who would either
  publicize the fact or run a parallel project of its own. Cooper intended
  to caution these young people not to reveal any details of CBA's
  behind-scenes purpose. He hoped his trust would be justified. Surveying
  his audience, still attentive and with a majority scribbling notes, he
  believed it would.
  Cooper was also keeping his eye on an outer doorway. The phone calls he
  had asked Jonathan Mony to make were messages to Harry Partridge and
  Crawford Sloane requesting they make a brief appearance here. He had been
  pleased when the response from both was positive.
  They arrived together. Cooper, in the midst of describing his imagined
  picture of the kidnappers' operating base, stopped and pointed to the
  door. All heads turned and despite the group's sophistication, there was
  an audible gasp as Sloane came forward, followed by Partridge.
  With suitable deference, Cooper stepped down from the lectem. He would
  not presume to introduce the National Evening News anchorman, but simply
  made way.
  "Hello, Teddy," Sloane said. "What would you like me to do?"
 "Mostly, sir, I think everyone would like to meet you."
  Sloane kept his voice low. "Tell me, how much have you let these people
  know?"
  Partridge had joined them near the lectern and was listening.
  .,Pretty much the lot. I decided they'll be more keen that way and we
  should trust them."
 "I go along with that," Partridge said.
 Sloane nodded. "Okay by me." He moved toward the rows
            The Evening News     335

 of chairs, ignoring the lectern. His face was serious; no one would expect
 him to be smiling and happy today, and when he spoke his voice matched the
 sober mood.
  "Ladies and gentlemen, it may be that in days to come, what any one or
  some of you are about to do will contribute directly to the safe return
  of my wife, my son and my father. If by great good fortune that should
  happen, you may be sure I will seek you out to thank you personally. For
  the time being I would like to express my appreciation of your being
  here, and wish you well. Good luck to us all!"
  Sloane remained in place as many of the young people rose to their feet
  and some came forward, reaching out to shake his hand and offer genuine
  good wishes; among them Teddy Cooper saw a few eyes glistening with
  tears. At the end, Sloane signaled goodbye and left as unobtrusively as
  he had come. Partridge, who also shook hands and spoke with some of the
  temporary workers, went with him.
  Cooper continued his briefing, describing what these investigative
  neophytes should look for. When he invited questions several hands shot
  up.
  A youth in an NYU sweat shirt was first. "Okay, so one of us has found
  an ad that fits the specs you've given, and it might be the place you're
  looking for. So we phone it in. What next?"
  "For starters," Cooper replied, "we find out who placed the ad. Usually
  a name will be there and you'll tell us. If there's no name, just a box
  number, try to get the info from the paper where you are, and if they're
  sticky about that, let us handle it."
  "And after that?"
  "If we can, we'll contact the advertiser by phone and ask some questions.
  If we can't, we'll go to visit them. Then, if the lead still looks
  promising, we'll take a look-very cautiouslyat the place that was
  advertised."
  "You've been saying 'we."' The new questioner was an attractive young
  woman in a fashionable beige suit. "Does that mean just you and other big
  shots, or will some of us here get to share the interesting part, where
  the action is?"
 336        ARTHUR HAILEY

  There were some cheers, and laughter in which Teddy Cooper joined.
  "Let's get something straight," he responded, "I'm a little shot, and be
  careful how you spell it." (More laughter.) "But this I promise you: As
  far as we can, we'll bring you in on any developments, especially those
  you have a hand in launching. One reason is, we'll need you. We don't
  have many bodies for this job and if there's a target, chances are you'll
  be headed for it."
  "When you get to that stage," a petite redhead asked, "will there be
  camera crews?"
  "You mean might you be on camera?"
  She smiled. "Something like that."
  "That won't be my decision, but I'd say it's likely."
  When the questions ended, Cooper concluded with some thoughts he had
  discussed with no one else, but had considered carefully the night
  before.
  "As well as looking for the kind of advertised buildings I've described,
  I want you to use the chance, with those three months of newspapers in
  front of you, to look at every page and be alert for anything unusual.
  "Don't ask me what that might be because I have no clue myself
  "But remember this: Those kidnappers we're trying to track down have been
  lurking in this area we reckon for at least a month, probably two. In
  that time, no matter how careful they've tried to be, possibly they've
  done some small thing which left a trace behind. The other possibility
  is that that small thing may somehow have found its way into print."
  "Sounds pretty chancy," someone said.
  Teddy Cooper nodded agreement. "You could say it's a chance in ten
  thousand that something happened which got reported, and another
  long-shot chance that one of you will find it if it did. So okay, the
  odds are against us. But don't forget that someone always wins the
  lottery when the odds are a million to one.
  "All I can tell you is think, think, think! Look hard, and look
  intelligently. Use your imagination. You were hired be-
              The Evening News     337

 cause we think you're smart, so prove us right. Yep, search for our first
 target-the ads for premises-but watch out for that other long shot as you
 go."
  At the end of his remarks, to Cooper's considerable surprise, the young
  people facing him rose to their feet and applauded.

  Earlier that morning, as soon as businesses were open, Harry Partridge
  had telephoned his contact, the lawyer with organized crime clients. The
  response was less than cordial. "Oh, it's you. Well, I told you Friday
  I'd do some discreet checking and I've already done that twice with no
  result. What I don't need is you climbing on my back."
  "I'm sorry if I                   Partridge began, but the other
 wasn't
 listening.
  "What you newshounds never realize is that in something like this, it's
  my goddamn head that's on the block. The people I deal with, my clients,
  trust me and I intend to keep it that way. I also know that one thing
  they don't give a shit about is other people's problems, including yours
  and Crawford Sloane's, however bad you think they are."
  "I understand that," Partridge protested. "But this is a kidnapping and
  . . ."
  "Shut up and listen! I told you when we talked, I was sure none of the
  people I represent did the kidnapping or were even involved. I'm still
  sure. I also conceded that I owe you and would try to find out what I
  could. But I have to walk like I'm in a minefield and, second, convince
  anyone I talk to that it's to their advantage to help if they know
  anything or have heard rumors."
 "Look, I said I'm sorry if .
  The lawyer pressed on. "So it isn't something to be done with a bulldozer
  or an express train. Understand?"
 Inwardly sighing, Partridge said, "I understand."
  The lawyer's voice moderated. "Give me a few more days. And don't call
  me; I'll call you."
  Hanging up, Partridge reflected that while contacts could be useful, you
  didn't necessarily have to like them.
 338        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Before his arrival at CBA News that morning Partridge had reached a
  decision on whether or not to reveal on the National Evening News that
  a known Colombian terrorist, Ulises Rodriguez, had been linked
  conclusively to the Sloane family kidnap.
  His decision was to withhold the information for the time being.
  Following the session with Cooper's recruits, Partridge sought out
  special task force members to inform them. In the group conference room
  he found Karl Owens and Iris Everly and explained his reasoning.
  "Look at it this way: Right now Rodriguez represents the only lead we
  have and he doesn't know we have it. But if we broadcast what we know,
  chances are strong that Rodriguez himself will hear of it and we'll have
  tipped our hand."
  Owens asked doubtfully, "Does that matter?"
  "I think it does. Everything points to Rodriguez having been under cover,
  and the effect would be to drive him further under. I don't have to tell
  you how much that would lessen our chances of discovering where he
  is-and, of course, the Sloanes."
  ..I can see all that," Iris acknowledged, "but do you really think,
  Harry, that a red-hot piece of news like this, already known to at least
  a dozen people, is going to stay conveniently under wraps until we're
  ready? Don't forget every network, every newspaper, every wire service
  has their best people working on this story. I give it twenty-four hours
  at most before everybody knows."
  Rita Abrams and Norman Jaeger had joined them and were listening.
  "You may be proved right," Partridge told Iris, "but I think it's a risk
  we have to take." He added, "I hate to sound corny but I think we should
  remember once in a while that this news thing we do is not some holy
  grail. When reporting endangers life and liberty, news has to take second
  place."
  "I don't want to seem stuffy either," Jaeger put in. "But in that, I'm
  with Harry."
            The Evening News     339

  "There's one other thing," Owens said, "and that's the FBI. By witholding
  this from them, we could be in trouble."
  "I've thought about that," Partridge acknowledged, "and decided to take our
  chances. If that bothers any of you, I'll remind you I'm the one
  responsible. The thing is, if we ten the FBI, we know from experience
  they're as likely as not to discuss it with other news people, then we'll
  have blown our exclusive that way."
  "Coming back to the main issue," Rita said, "there are precedents for what
  we'd be doing. I remember one at ABC."
  Iris prompted, "So tell us."
  "You recall the TWA hijack-Beirut, 1985?"
  The others nodded, reminded that during the mid-1980s Rita had worked for
  ABC News; also that the hijacking was a terrorist outrage, holding world
  attention for two weeks during which a U.S. Navy diver, a passenger aboard
  TWA Flight 847, was savagely murdered.
  "Almost from the beginning of that hijack," Rita said, "we knew at ABC that
  there were three American servicemen aboard that plane, in civilian
  clothes, and we believed we had the information exclusively. The question
  was: Should we use it on the air? Well, we never did, believing that if we
  did, the hijackers would learn of it and those servicemen would be as good
  as dead. In the end the terrorists found out themselves but we always
  hoped, because of doing the decent thing, we helped two of those three
  survive."
  "Okay," Iris said, "I suppose I go along. Though if no one's used the story
  by tomorrow, I suggest we take another look."
  "I'll buy that," Owens agreed, and the discussion ended.
  However, because of its importance Partridge decided to share his decision
  with Les Chippingham and Chuck Insen.
  The news president, who received Partridge in his paneled office, merely
  shrugged when told, and commented, "You're the one making task force
  decisions, Harry; if we didn't trust your judgment you wouldn't be there.
  Thanks for telling me, though.,,
  The National Evening News executive producer was in his presiding seat at
  the Horseshoe. As he listened, Insen's eyes
 340        ARTHUR HAILEY

 brightened. At the end he nodded. "Interesting, Harry; nice piece of
 research. When you give it to us, we'll run it top of the show. But not
 until you say so."
  Which left Partridge free to resume telephoning and he settled down in
  his temporary private office.
  Once more he had his blue book of names and phone numbers, but unlike
  last week when his calls were directed mainly at U.S. sources today
  Partridge tried to reach contacts in Colombia and the countries
  immediately adjoining-Venezuela, Brazil, Ecuador, Panama and Peru-plus
  Nicaragua. In all those places, from where he had frequently reported for
  CBA News, there were people he knew who had helped him, and for some of
  whom he had done return favors.
  Something else different today was having the positive Rodriguez lead,
  which translated into a double-barreled question: Do you know of a
  terrorist named Ulises Rodriguez,- if so, have you any idea where he is
  or what he's reputed to be doing?
  Although Karl Owens had talked on Friday with Latin American contacts,
  as far as Partridge could tell there was no overlapping-a fact not
  surprising since producers as well as correspondents cultivated their own
  sources and, once they had them, kept them to themselves.
  Today, responses to the first part of the question posed were almost
  entirely "yes" and to the second portion, "no." Confirming Owens's
  earlier report, Rodriguez seemed to have disappeared from sight three
  months ago and had not been seen since. An interesting point, though,
  emerged from a conversation with a longtime Colombian friend, a radio
  news reporter in Bogotd.
  "Wherever he is," the broadcaster said, "I'd almost guarantee it isn't
  this country. He's a Colombian after all, and even though he stays out
  of reach of the law, he's too well known to be in his home territory for
  long without word getting around. So my bet is, he's somewhere else." The
  conclusion made sense.
  One country Partridge had suspicions about was Nicaragua, where the
  Sandinistas, despite an election defeat, were still a strong presence and
  continued their long antagonism to the United States. Could they be
  involved in some way with the
            The Evening News     341

 kidnapping, hoping to gain from it an advantage yet to be disclosed? The
 question didn't iftake a lot of sense, but neither did much else. However,
 a half-dozen calls to the capital, Managua, produced a consensus that
 Ulises Rodriguez was not in Nicaragua, nor had he been there.
  Then there was Peru. Partridge made several calls to that country and one
  conversation in particular left him wondering.
  He had spoken with another old acquaintance, Manuel Le6n Seminario,
  owner-editor of the weekly magazine Escena, published in Lima.
  After Partridge announced his name, Serninario had come on the line at
  once. His greeting was in impeccable English and Partridge could picture
  him-slight and dapper, fashionably and fastidiously dressed. "Well, well,
  my dear Harry. How excellent to hear from you! And where are you? In
  Lima, I hope."
  When informed that the call was from New York, the owner-editor expressed
  disappointment. "For a moment I hoped we might have lunch tomorrow at La
  Pizzeria. The food, I assure you, is as good as ever. So why not hop on
  a plane and come?"
  "I'd love to, Manuel. Unfortunately I'm up to my eyebrows in important
  work." Partridge explained his role in the Sloane kidnap task force.
  "My god! I should have realized you'd be involved. That's a terrible
  thing. We've followed the situation closely and we'll have a full-page
  piece in this week's issue. Is there anything new we should include?"
  "There is something new," Partridge said, "and it's the reason I'm
  calling. But for now we're keeping it under wraps, so I'd appreciate this
  talk being off the record."
  "Well . . ." The response was cautious. "As long as it's not information
  we possess already."
  "We can trust each other, Manuel. On the basis you just said--okay?"
  "With that understanding, okay."
  "We have reason to believe that Ulises Rodriguez is involved."
  There was a silence before the magazine man said softly,
 342        ARTHUR HAILEY

 "You are speaking of bad company, Harry. Around here that name is a nasty,
 feared word."
  "Why feared?"
  "The man is suspected of masterminding kidnappings, skulking in and out
  of Peru from Colombia for employment by others here. It is a way our
  criminal-revolutionary elements work. As you know, in Peru nowadays
  kidnapping is almost a way of life. Well-to-do businessmen or their
  families are favorite targets. Many of us employ guards and drive
  protected cars, hoping to forestall it."
  "I did know that," Partridge said. "But until this moment I'd forgotten."
  Seminario sighed audibly, "You are not alone, my friend. The Western
  press attention to Peru is spotty, to put it kindly. As to your TV news,
  we might as well not exist."
  Partridge knew the statement held some truth. He was never sure why, but
  Americans seldom took the same continuing interest in Peru that they did
  in other countries. Aloud he said, "Have you heard any talk of Rodriguez
  being in Peru, perhaps right now, or recently working for anyone there?"
  "Well . . . no. "
  "Did I sense some hesitation?"
  "Not about Rodriguez. I have not heard anything, Harry. I would tell you
  if I had."
  "What then?"
  "Everything here, on what I call the criminal-revolutionary front, has
  been strangely quiet for several weeks. Scarcely anything happening.
  Nothing of significance."
  "So?"
  "I have seen the signs before and I believe they are unique to Peru. When
  things are quietest it often means something big is about to happen.
  Usually unpleasant and of a nature unexpected."
  Seminario's voice changed tempo, becoming businesslike. "My dear Harry,
  it has been a pleasure talking to you and I am glad you called. But
  Escena will not edit itself and I must go. Do come to see me soon in
  Lima, and remember: Lunch at La Pizzeria-a standing invitation."
            The Evening News     343

  Through the remainder of the day the words kept coming back to Partridge:
  "When things are quietest it often means something big is about to
  happen. "

 Coincidentally, on the same day Harry Partridge talked with the
 owner-editor of Escena, Peru was discussed at an ultraprivate, top-echelon
 meeting of CBA network's corporate owners, Globanic Industries Inc. The
 meeting was a twice-yearly, three-day "policy workshop" chaired by the
 conglomerate's chairman and chief executive officer, Theodore Elliott.
 Attendance was confined to other CEO's-those of Globanic's nine
 subsidiaries, all major companies themselves, most with their own
 ancillaries.
  At such meetings corporate confidences were exchanged and secret plans
  revealed, some capable of making or breaking competitors, investors and
  markets around the world. However, no written agenda or minutes of the
  biannual parleys ever existed. Security was strict and each day, before
  proceedings began, the meeting room was electronically swept for bugs.
  Outside the meeting, but never in it, were support staffs of aides-a half
  dozen or so for each subsidiary company-poised to provide data or
  briefings that their various chiefs might need.
  The locale of the meetings seldom varied. On this occasion, as on most
  others, it was at the Fordly Cay Club near Nassau in the Bahamas.
  Fordly Cay, one of the world's most exclusive private clubs, with a
  resort facility including a yacht harbor, golf course, tennis courts and
  white-sand beaches, occasionally allowed special VIP groups the expensive
  use of its facilities. Larger conventions were verboten; sales meetings,
  as far as Fordly Cay was concerned, did not exist.
  Ordinary membership in the club was hard to come by; a
 344        ARTHUR HAILEY

 waiting list caused many aspirants to linger for long periods, some in
 vain. Theodore Elliott was a recent member, though approval of his
 application had taken two years.
  The day before, when everyone arrived, Elliott had been proprietorial,
  especially welcoming Globanic spouses who would appear only at social,
  tennis, golfing and sailing breaks. Today the first morning meeting was
  in a small, comfortable library with deep rattan chairs upholstered in
  beige leather, and wall-to-wall patterned carpeting. Between book-lined
  walls, softly lit cases held silver sporting trophies. Above a fireplace-
  seldom used-a portrait of the club's founder beamed down on the select
  small group.
  Elliott was appropriately dressed in white slacks and a light-blue polo
  shirt, the latter bearing the club crest-a quartered shield with palm
  tree rampant, engrailed crossed tennis racquets, golf clubs and a yacht,
  all on waves of the sea. With or without such accoutrements, Theo Elliott
  was classically handsome-tall, lean, broad-shouldered, with a strong jaw
  and a full head of hair, now totally white. Ile hair was a reminder that
  in two years' time the chairman-in-chief would reach retirement age and
  be succeeded, almost certainly, by one of the others present.
  Allowing for the fact that some heads of companies were too old to be
  eligible, there were three strong candidates. Margot Lloyd-Mason was one.
  Margot was conscious of this as she reported early in the proceedings on
  the state of CBA.
  Speaking precisely, she disclosed that since Globanic Industries'
  acquisition of CBA television and radio network and affiliated stations,
  strict financial controls had been introduced, budgets pared and
  redundant personnel dismissed. As a result, third-quarter profits would
  be up twenty-two percent compared with the pre-Globanic year before.
  "That's a fair beginning," Theodore Elliott commented, "though we'll
  expect even better in future." There were confirming nods from others in
  the room.
  Margot had dressed carefully today, not wanting to appear too feminine,
  yet at the same time not wishing to lose the ad-
              The Evening News     345

 vantage of her sex. At first she considered wearing a tailored suit, as she
 often did in her office at Stonehenge, but decided it was inappropriate in
 the semitropics. In the end she chose beige linen slacks and a cotton
 sweater in a soft peach shade. The outfit emphasized her well-proportioned
 body, a judgment confirmed by lingering glances from some of the men.
  Continuing her report, Margot mentioned the recent kidnapping of the
  Crawford Sloane family.
  The chairman of International Forest Products, a harddriving Oregonian
  named DeWitt, injected, "That's too bad and we all hope they catch those
  people. Just the same, your network's getting a lot of attention from it."
  "So much attention," Margot informed him, "that our National Evening News
  ratings have soared from 9.2 to 12.1 within the past five days, which means
  an additional six million viewers and puts us strongly in front as number
  one. It's also raised the rating of our daily game show, carried by our
  five owned and operated stations immediately after the news. And the same
  is true of our prime-time shows, especially the Ben Largo Show on Friday
  which went from 22.5 to 25.9. The sponsors all around are delighted; as a
  result we're pushing hard with next season's advertising."
  Someone asked, "Does that spread of good ratings mean most people don't
  change channels?" The question reminded Margot that even among this exalted
  group there was an inherent fascination with the minutiae of broadcasting.
  "Networks know from experience that if viewers tune in to the evening news
  the odds are they will stay with that network for the next ninety minutes,
  sometimes more. At the same time, others join the audience."
  "So it's an ill wind . . . as the old saying goes," the forest products
  chief said, smiling.
  Margot smiled back. "Since we're here in private I'll agree, though please
  don't quote me."
  "No one quotes anybody," Theo Elliott said. "Privacy and truth are why we
  hold these sessions."
  "Speaking of your advertisers, Margot." The voice belonged to Leon Ironwood
  of West World Aviation, a tanned, athletic
 346        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Californian and another of the three contenders to be Elliott's successor.
 The company Ironwood headed was a successful defense contractor making
 fighter airplanes. "What's the latest on that ongoing problem of video
 recording machines? How many households have them anyway?"
  "About fifty percent," Margot acknowledged, "and you're right about the
  problem. Most of those who record network programs later zip through
  commercials without watching, thereby diminishing our advertising
  effectiveness."
  Ironwood nodded. "Especially since VCR owners represent an affluent
  population group. It's how I watch TV."
  Someone else added, "And don't forget mute buttons. I use mine whenever
  there's a commercial."
  "The truth is," Margot said, "the whole VCR and mute problems are like
  permanent storm clouds over us, which is why networks have dragged their
  feet in researching their effects. There could have been a measuring
  technique long ago, except we don't want to know the bad news, and in
  that we have an ally-advertising agencies who fear that knowledge would
  turn off big advertisers, depriving the agencies of enormous business."
  "I'm sure," Elliott prompted, "that your fiscal planning has taken that
  into account."
  "It has, Theo. Looking ahead and accepting that network advertising money
  will diminish, we're seeking additional revenue sources, and it's why CBA
  and others have quietly bought up TV cable operators and will acquire
  more. The networks have the capital and one day soon cable TV may wake
  up to find itself almost entirely owned by broadcast networks. At the
  same time, we're exploring joint-venture agreements with the phone
  companies."
  "Joint venture?" Ironwood asked
  "I'll explain. First, accept the fact that terrestrial broadcast-
  ing--over-the-air television-is near the end of its useful life. Within
  ten to fifteen years about the only place you'll find an old-fashioned
  TV antenna is the Smithsonian; also by then, TV stations will have
  abandoned their conventional transmitters as uneconomic."
            The Evening News     347

  "With cable and satellite dishes taking over?"
  "Partly, but not entirely." Margot smiled. She was dealing with a familiar
  subject as well as demonstrating, she hoped, her own farsightedness.
  "The next thing to realize," she continued, "is that there is no important
  future in this business for cable operators alone. To survive, they must
  pool resources-and so shall we-with the telephone people whose lines
  already go into every home. "
  Several nodded approvingly as Margot declared, "The technology for a
  combination phone and TV line, using fiber-optic cable, is available now.
  It's simply a matter of getting the system working, which includes a
  network like ours developing specialized cable programming. The potential
  revenues are enormous."
  "Aren't there government restrictions," Ironwood asked, "on phone companies
  entering the broadcast business?"
  "Restrictions which the Congress will change. We're working on that; in
  fact legislation has been drafted."
  "And you're convinced Congress will go along?"
  Theo Elliott laughed. "If she is, it's with good reason. I assume most of
  us here have read the book The Best Congress Money Can Buy. If not, it's
  must reading for people like ourselves . . . What's the author's name?"
  "Philip Stem," Margot said.
  "Right. Well, just the way Stem described, Globanic Industries contributes
  handsomely to every Political Action Committee affecting our concerns,
  which means congressional votes are bought and ready when we need them.
  When Margot wants those regulations changed, she can let me know. I'll pass
  the word."
  "There's talk of abolishing the PAC system," DeWitt said.
  "And that's all it is-talk," Elliott responded. "Besides, even if the name
  is changed, you can be sure those in Congress will find some other way to
  do exactly what they're doing now."
  The forthright, off-the-record talk continued. However, the subject of the
  Sloane family kidnapping was not brought up again.
 348        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Late in the morning it was the turn of K. Phocis ("Fossie") Xenos,
  chairman of Globanic Financial Services, to address his fellow CEO's.
  Three years earlier Tri-Trade Financial Services, as it was then, was a
  consumer credit enterprise making loans to middleclass Americans from a
  chain of storefront offices; it also sold life and casualty insurance.
  Globanic then bought out TriTrade, Theo Elliott seeing it as a ready-made
  base-much simpler than starting a new company-for attracting
  international investors seeking entrepreneurial risk and glamour. He put
  Fossie Xenos in charge-a young second-generation Greek-American with an
  MBA degree from Wharton, who had come to Elliott's attention through some
  artful investment-bank maneuvers.
  Almost the first thing Xenos did was dispose of the consumer credit
  business, which produced only modest profits, and close the storefront
  offices; soon after, he terminated the insurance activity, describing it
  as "small-time humdrum for mental midgets." He was more interested in
  something fresh and exciting on the monetary scene-leveraged buyouts,
  known as LBO's, financed by junk bonds.
  Since then, working with whatever happened to be "hot" financially,
  Fossie Xenos had created sparkling profits for Global Financial, plus a
  dynamic reputation for himself. The last was why Margot Lloyd-Mason
  viewed Fossie, who was the third possible candidate for the conglomerate
  chairmanship, as her most formidable rival.
  Despite his manipulative skills and conquests, Fossie retained a boyish
  manner, appearing at least eight years younger than the forty-one he was.
  His clothes were mostly casual, his hair untidy, the result of running
  his hands through it as he talked in a rapid-fire staccato. He was
  persuasive and convincing; that and a dazzling smile he flashed at
  everyone were his personality strengths.
  Today Fossie Xenos reported on a complex, delicate and largely secret
  project, now in its early stages but expected to produce a
  multibillion-dollar bonanza for Global. It involved so-called
  debt-to-equity swaps and a gigantic real estate invest-
              The Evening News     349

 ment fund, both relating to Peru, with Globanic working handin-glove with
 that country's government.
  As described by Fossie to his fellow CEO's, the steps and conditions were:

Currently, Peru had more than $16 billion of foreign debt on which it had
 defaulted, thereby cutting itself off from the international financial
 community which would lend it no more money. Peru, however, suffering a
 desperate economic crisis, was anxious to get back into reputable status and
 begin borrowing once more.
Globanic Financial Services had quietly bought up $4.5 billion of Peru's
 outstanding debt-better than one quarterpaying an average five cents on the
 dollar, an outlay of $225 million. The original lenders of the money, mainly
 U.S. banks, were glad to sell even at that low price since they long ago
 figured they would get nothing back at all. Globanic had now "securitized"
 the Peruvian debt-that is, converted it into negotiable paper.
The government of Peru, through three of its ministers controlling finance,
 tourism and public works, had been informed they now had a matchless
 opportunity to wipe out that $4.5 billion of debt by buying the securitized
 debt from Globanic for ten cents on the dollar, but with all bookkeeping
 payments in Peru's own weak currency, the inti. This was Fossie's cleverly
 baited hook because in that way the country's small and precious store of
 other countries' hard currency-mainly dollars-would remain untouched.
Three critical conditions were attached to Globanic's acknowledgment of
 Peruvian currency. Globanic didn't want cash but instead the debt-to-equity
 swap, giving it total ownership of two spectacular resort locations now
 owned by the Peruvian Government. Globanic Financial would develop and
 eventually operate these, believing both to have gigantic potential as
 premium holiday destinations. One resort city with a coastal location was
 foreseen as the "Punta del Este of the Pacific." The other, a mountain-
  350        ARTHUR HAILEY

  locked site in the Andes, would be a sensational staging point for
  excursions to Machu Picchu and Cuzco, among the world's most popular
  tourist attractions.
Along with those vast amounts of land would go government guarantees that
 Globanic could do the developing freely, in its own way. At the same time
 Globanic would bring in hard currency to pay for development while also
 creating massive local employment, both helpful to Peru.
The final condition, to be secret between the Peruvian Government and
 Globanic, was that the price paid for the two resort sites should be
 twenty-five percent less than their real value.
Globanic would benefit in several ways: Initially by selling the
 securitized debt for twice what it paid-an instant bonus of $225 million.
 Next, by obtaining two magnificent locations for only three quarters of
 their worth. After that, attracting worldwide investment for the resorts'
 development and eventually reaping gargantuan profits from their
 operation.

  Fossie's report ended with the information that following long and
  delicate negotiations, agreement between the Peruvian Government and
  Globanic Financial had been reached a few days earlier, with all of
  Globanic's demands accepted.
  As K. Phocis Xenos concluded and sat down, there was spontaneous applause
  from the small, high-powered audience. Theo Elliott, beaming, inquired,
  "Questions, anyone?"
  "About those government ministers you spoke of," a CEO named Warren
  Graydon began; he headed Empire Chemical Corporation. "Is there any kind
  of assurance that they'll keep their word?"
  "Let me handle that one," Elliott said. "The answer is yes, we have taken
  precautions. But I don't believe we need lay out details, even here."
  There were subtle smiles, the answer indicating that bribery was
  involved. In fact, when the Peru-Globanic agreement was signed and
  sealed, the three ministers would receive Swiss bank
            The Evening News     351

 accounts, opened in their names, with a million and a half dollars deposited
 in each. They would also have the free use, whenever required, of luxury
 condominiums in London, Paris and Geneva, with accompanying fringe benefits.
 International companies like Globanic Industries frequently made such ar-
 rangements for their political friends.
  Margot spoke up. "Tell us about Peru's stability, Fossie. Lately there's
  been an increase in revolutionary activity, not just in the usual Andes
  areas, but in Lima and elsewhere. Under those circumstances will resorts
  be practical? Will vacationers want to go there?"
  She was walking a tightrope, Margot knew. On one hand, because of their
  competitive relationship, she could not afford to let Fossie Xenos get away
  with his presentation entirely unchallenged; also if something went wrong
  with the resort scheme later, she wanted it remembered that she had doubts
  in the beginning. On the other hand, if Margot became Globanic Industries'
  new chairman, she would need Fossie's friendship and his impressive
  contributions to conglomerate revenues. Keeping that in mind, she tried to
  make her questions rational and down the middle.
  If Fossie sensed the maneuvering, he showed no sign of it and answered
  cheerfully. "All my information is that the revolutionary outlook is
  short-term and over the long haul Peru will survive with a solid,
  law-abiding democracy favorable to expanded tourism. Supporting that,
  there's a long tradition in the country based on democratic values."
  Margot made no further contribution but noted that Fossie had just
  exhibited a weakness which someday she might exploit. She had observed the
  same thing before with others, especially in real estate deals where
  glamorous objectives could outweigh normally cautious judgments.
  Psychologists called it the suspension of reality and, as Margot viewed it,
  anyone who believed an end was in sight to armed insurrection in Peru had
  done exactly that.
  Of course, she reasoned, the resorts could still go ahead and be protected;
  after all, there were an increasing number of places in the world where
  holiday-making and danger existed
 352        ARTHUR HAILEY

 side by side. But in Peru's case, only time and large expenditures would
 make the outcome clear.
  Theo Elliott clearly did not share Margot's doubts. "If that's all the
  questioning," he pronounced, "let me just say this: For some time I've
  known what Fossie has just told you, but have brought you into it today
  for two good reasons. First, I know all of us can keep secrets and it's
  to our advantage to keep this one. Second, I don't want anything to
  damage our still delicate relationship with the government of Peru and
  thereby spoil what can evolve into the deal of the century." The chairman
  rose. "Now that's understood, let's have lunch."

 It took several minutes for Jessica to accept the possibility that what
 Nicky had told her-that they were actually in Perumight conceivably be
 true.
  It couldn't have happened! Surely there had not been time!
  But gradually, discarding earlier assumptions and with specific memories
  returning, the likelihood grew stronger. Wasn't it possible, she
  reasoned, that she, Nicky and Angus had been unconscious far longer than
  she had considered possible, even when she thought they might be in a
  southern U.S. state? Obviously, yes.
  Yet if this was Peru, how had they been brought here? It could not have
  been easy to smuggle three unconscious people . . .
  A sudden flash of memoty! An image sharp and clear, yet totally forgotten
  until now.
  During that brief interval when she struggled and managed to wound
  Cutface . . . in those desperate moments she had seen two emptyfuneral
  caskets, one smaller than the other. That terrifying sight had convinced
  her she and Nicky were about to be killed.
            The Evening News     353

  But now, with a shudder, Jessica realized they must have been brought here
  in those caskets-like dead people! The thought was so horrific that she
  wouldn't, couldn't think of it. Instead, she forced her mind back to the
  present, grim and painful as it was.
  Jessica, Nicky and Angus, with their hands tied behind them, were still
  walking, stumbling over the narrow trail hemmed in by densely growing trees
  and undergrowth. Some armed men were ahead, others behind. At any sign of
  slowing, those behind shouted, "iAndale! iApfirense4 " prodding with their
  rifles to urge the captives on.
  And it was hot. Incredibly hot. Sweat poured from them all.
  Jessica worried desperately about the other two. She herself was suffering
  an intense headache, nausea, and a myriad of buzzing insects she was unable
  to brush away. How long could this go on? Nicky had said they were going
  to a river. Surely they must get there soon!
  Yes, Jessica decided, Nicky's informant must have been right. This was Peru
  and, realizing how far from home they had come and how remote were the
  chances of their being rescued here, she felt like weeping.
  The ground beneath her feet had beoome soggy, making it increasingly
  difficult to walk. Suddenly, behind her, Jessica heard a sharp cry, a
  commotion and a thud. Turning, she saw that Angus had fallen. His face was
  in mud.
  Gamely, the old man struggled to get up, but failed because of his tied
  hands. Behind him the men with guns laughed. One of them lunged forward
  with his rifle, ready to thrust the barrel in Angus's back.
  Jessica screamed at the man, "No, no, no!"
  The words briefly startled him and before he could recover, Jessica ran to
  Angus and dropped to her knees beside him. She managed to keep her body
  upright, even with her hands tied, though was helpless to assist Angus to
  his feet. The man with the gun moved angrily toward her, but stopped at the
  sound of Miguel's sharp voice. From the front of the column, Miguel now
  appeared, with Socorro and Baudelio behind him.
  Before anyone else could speak, Jessica raised her voice,
 354        ARTHUR HAILEY

 strong with emotion. "Yes, we are your prisoners. We don't know why, but
 we know we can't escape, and so do you. Why, then, tie our hands? All we
 want is to help ourselves, to keep from falling. Look what happens when
 we canT Please, please, show some mercy! I beg you, free our hands!"
  For the first time, Miguel hesitated, especially as Socorro told him
  softly, "If one of them breaks a leg or arm, or even has a cut, it could
  be infected. In Nueva Esperanza we'll have no means of dealing with
  infection."
  Beside her, Baudelio said, "She's right."
  Miguel, with an impatient gesture, snapped an order in Spanish. One of
  the men with guns stepped forward-the same man who had helped Nicky in
  the truck. From a sheath fastened to his belt he produced a knife and
  reached behind Jessica. She felt the rope binding her wrists loosen, then
  fall away. Nicky was next. Angus was propped up while his bonds were
  severed too, then Jessica and Nicky helped him stand.
  Amid shouted commands, they again moved forward.
  In the past few minutes, despite her emotion, Jessica had learned several
  things. First, their destination was Nueva Esperanza, though the name
  meant nothing to her. Second, the man who had befriended Nicky was
  Vicente-she'd heard his name used when he cut the bonds. Third, the woman
  who interceded with Miguel, the same one who struck Jessica in the hut,
  possessed some medical knowledge. So did Cutface. Possibly one or the
  other was a doctor, perhaps both,
  She squirreled the nuggets of information away, instinct telling her that
  whatever she could learn might prove useful later.
  Moments later, as the column rounded a bend in the trail, a wide river
  appeared ahead.

  Miguel remembered reading in his early nihilist days that a successful
  terrorist must divest himself of conventional human emotions and achieve
  his ends by instilling terror in those who opposed his wishes and his
  will. Even the emotion of hatred, while useful in providing terrorists
  with psychic passion, could be a liability in excess, obscuring judgment.
            The Evening News     355

  In his terrorist career, Miguel had followed those dicta faithfully, adding
  one more: Action and danger were a terrorist's stimulants. For himself, he
  needed them the way an addict needed drugs.
  Which was the reason for his disenchantment with what lay immediately
  ahead.
  For four months, commencing with his flight to London and his acquisition
  of the illegal passport he used to enter the United States, he had been
  driven by the zest of ever-present danger, the life-and-death necessity for
  careful planning, more recently the heady flavor of success and, overall,
  a constant vigilance to assure survival.
  But now, in these jungle backwaters of Peru, the dangers were less great.
  While there was always a possibility of government forces appearing
  suddenly, spraying automatic weapons fire and asking questions after, most
  other pressures were reduced or absent. Yet Miguel had contracted to remain
  here-or at least in Nueva Esperanza, the small village they would reach
  today-for an unspecified length of time because when this deal was made
  with the Medellin cartel, Sendero Luminoso had wanted it that way. For what
  reason? Miguel didn't know.
  Nor did he know precisely why the prisoners had been taken and what would
  happen now they had been brought here. He did know they were to be strictly
  guarded, which was probably the reason for his staying on since he had a
  reputation for reliability. As to anything more, that was presumably in the
  hands of Abimael GuzmAn, the raving lunatic-as Miguel thought of him
  nowadays-who had founded Sendero Luminoso and considered himself the
  immaculate Maoist-Jesus. Of course, that was assuming Guzmfin was still
  alive. Rumors that he was or wasn't came with the persistence-and
  unreliability --of jungle rain.
  Miguel bated the jungle-or Selva, as Peruvians called it. Hated the
  all-pervading dampness, decay and mold . . . the sense of confinement, as
  if the swiftly growing, impenetrable undergrowth was forever closing in .
  . . the never-ceasing dissonance of insects until you longed for a few
  minutes of silence and relief . . . the loathsome legion of soundless,
  slithering
 356        ARTHUR HAILEY

 snakes. And the jungle was huge: almost twice the size of California and
 representing three fifths of Peru, though only five percent of the
 country's inhabitants lived there.
  Peruvians were fond of declaring there were three Perus: the bustling
  coastal region with a thousand miles of cities, commerce, beaches; the
  South Andean mountains, their magnificent peaks rivaling the Himalayas
  and the area perpetuating Inca history and tradition; and finally this
  jungle, the Amazonian Selva Indian, wild and tribal. Well, Miguel could
  take and even enjoy the first and second. Nothing, though, would change
  his aversion to the third. The jungle was asquerosa.
  His thoughts returned to Sendero Luminoso-the "Shining Path" to
  revolution, the name taken from the writings of Peru's late Marxist
  philosopher, Jos6 Carlos Maridtegui. In 1980, Abimael Guzmin followed
  that lead, soon afterward anointing himself "the fourth sword of world
  revolution," his predecessors, as he saw it, being Marx, Lenin and Mao
  Tse-tung. All other revolutionaries were spurned by Guzm4n as pallid
  charlatans, the rejects including Lenin's Soviet successors and Cuba's
  Castro.
  The guerrillas of Sendero Luminoso believed they would overthrow the
  existing government and rule all of Peru. But not quickly. The movement
  claimed to count time in decades, not in years. Yet Sendero was large and
  strong already, its corps of leaders and its power growing, and Miguel
  expected to see the overthrow happen in his lifetime. Not, however, from
  this odiosa jungle.
  For the moment, though, Miguel was awaiting instructions about the
  prisoners, instructions which would probably originate in Ayacucho, a
  historic town in the Andes foothills where Sendero exercised almost total
  control. Not that Miguel cared who gave the orders as long as some,
  involving action, reached him soon.
  But now, the Huallaga River was directly ahead-a sudden opening in the
  constricting jungle scene. He paused to survey it.
  Wide and a muddy orange-brown from Andean lateritic silt, the Huallaga
  flowed steadily toward its confluence with the Marafi6n River three
  hundred miles away and, soon after, its
            The Evening News     357

 merging with the mighty Amazon. Centuries ago, Portuguese explorers named
 this whole Amazon complex 0 Rio Mar, The Fiver Sea.
  As they drew nearer, Miguel could see two wooden workboats, each about
  thirty-five feet long and with twin outboard motors, moored close to the
  riverbank. Gustavo, leader of the small force that had met them at the
  airstrip, was giving orders about loading stores the arriving group had
  brought. He also indicated how those traveling in the boats would be
  divided; the prisoners were to be in the first. Miguel noted approvingly
  that Gustavo's instructions included posting two armed guards while loading
  was taking place, a precaution against a sudden appearance by government
  forces.
  Satisfied with what was being done, Miguel saw no reason to interfere. He
  would resume full command at Nueva Esperanza.

  For Jessica, the river magnified the sense of isolation she felt. It seemed
  to her a desolate opening to an unknown world, unconnected to the one
  behind them. Prodded by guns, she, Nicky and Angus waded knee-deep through
  water to board one of the boats and, after climbing in, were ordered to sit
  on the damp boat bottom, a flat surface formed by boards running fore and
  aft above the keel. It was possible to lean back, if they chose, against
  the edge of a single board athwart the top of the boat, but this merely
  provided a choice between two discomforting positions, neither one
  endurable for long.
  Jessica noticed then that Nicky had gone pale and was suddenly racked by
  vomiting. Though nothing came from his mouth except a little mucus, his
  chest heaved. Jessica moved closer and held him, at the same time looking
  desperately for help.
  She immediately saw Cutface who had waded out from shore and was beside the
  boat. Before Jessica could speak, the woman she had observed several times
  before appeared and Cutface ordered, "Give them all more water-the boy
  first."
  Socorro filled a tin cup with water and passed it to Nicholas
 358        ARTHUR HAILEY

 who drank greedily; as he did, the shaking of his body subsided. Then he
 said in a weak voice, "I'm hungry."
  "There is no food here," Baudelio told him. "You will have to wait."
  Jessica protested, "There must be something he can have."
  Cutface did not answer, but the order he had given about water had made
  his status clear and Jessica said accusingly, "You're a doctor!"
  "That is no concern of yours."
  "And he's American," Angus added. "Listen to his voice." The water seemed
  to have revived Angus who turned toward Baudelio. "That's right isn't it,
  you disgusting bastard? Don't you ever feel ashamed?"
  Baudelio merely turned away and climbed into the other boat.
  "Please, I'm hungry," Nicky repeated. He turned to Jessica. "Mom, I'm
  scared."
  Jessica, holding him again, admitted, "Darling, so am F'
  Socorro, who heard all the exchanges, appeared to hesitate. Then reaching
  into her shoulder bag, she produced a large bar of Cadbury's chocolate.
  Without speaking, she tore open the package, broke off a half-dozen
  squares and offered two to each prisoner. Angus was last and shook his
  head. "Give mine to the boy.,'
  Socorro clucked her annoyance, then impulsively tossed the entire
  chocolate bar into the boat. It fell at Jessica's feet. At the same time
  Socorro moved away, boarding the second boat.
  Some of the armed men who had been in the truck and on the wooded trail
  now climbed into the same boat as the prisoners and both boats started
  to move. Jessica noticed that other men who had been in charge of the
  boats were also armed. Even the two helmsmen, each seated forward of the
  twin outboard motors, had rifles across their knees and looked ready to
  use them. The chances of getting away, even if there were somewhere to
  go, seemed nonexistent.

  As both boats headed upriver against the current, Socorro fumed at
  herself for what she had done. She hoped no one else
            The Evening News     359

 had seen, because giving the prisoners that good chocolate, unobtainable
 in Peru, was a sign of weakness, of foolish pity-a contemptible sentiment
 in a revolutionary.
  The problem was, she had moments of vacillation within herself, a psychic
  tug-of-war.
  Less than a week ago, Socorro had reminded herself of the need to guard
  against banal emotions. That was the evening following the kidnap while
  the Sloane woman, the boy and the old man were unconscious in the second
  floor medical room of the Hackensack house. At that time Socorro was
  doing her best to hate the captives-rico bourgeois scum, she had labeled
  them mentally, and still did. But the hatred had to be forced on that
  other occasion and even now, she thought to her discredit, the same
  seemed true.
  Earlier today, in the airstrip hut when the Sloane woman asked a question
  after Miguel ordered silence, Socorro deliberately hit her hard, sending
  the woman reeling. At the time, believing Miguel was watching, Socorro
  had simply tried to be supportive. Yet moments later she felt ashamed at
  what she had done. Ashamed! She should not feel that way.
  Socorro told herself, She must be resolute in putting behind her, once
  and for all, memories of those things she had likedcorrection: deluded
  herself into liking-during her three years in the United States. She had
  to hate, hate~ hate America. And these prisoners too.
  Soon afterward, while the river and its dense green uninhabited shores
  slipped by, she dozed. Then, some three hours after departure, both boats
  slowed, their bows turning from the main river into a smaller stream, the
  banks on either side closing in and rising steeply as the boats
  progressed. They were nearing Nueva Esperanza, Socorro presumed, and
  there, she assured herself, she would strengthen and revive her radical
  fervor.

  Baudelio, watching the boat ahead lead the way along a side valley from
  the Huallaga River, knew this journey was almost ended and he was glad.
  His time spent with this project was close to ending too, and very soon
  he hoped to be in Lima. That
 360        ARTHUR HAILEY

 had been promised him as soon as the captives were delivered here in a
 healthy state.
  Well, they were healthy, even in this ghastly, humid heat.
  As if the thought of humidity had prompted more of the same, the sky
  overhead suddenly darkened to a somber gray and a torrent of rain arrived
  in sheets, soaking everything in sight. While a protruding jetty could
  be seen ahead, with other boats moored or beached, there were still
  several minutes to go before landing and, for captives and captors both,
  there was nothing to do but sit and get wet.
  Baudelio was indiffierent to the rain as he was indifferent nowadays to
  most else that came his way-for example, the abuse directed at him by the
  old man prisoner and the Sloane woman. He was long past caring about
  that, and any humane feelings he once had concerning those he worked on
  medically had been extinguished years ago.
  What he really longed for at this moment was a drinkseveral drinks; in
  fact, Baudelio wanted to get drunk as soon as possible. While he had
  continued taking the Antabuse tablets which made it impossible to drink
  liquor without becoming violently ill-Miguel still insisted on the
  alcoholic ex-doctor swallowing one tablet in his presence daily-Baudelio
  intended to stop the Antabuse the instant he and Miguel parted company.
  As far as Baudelio was concerned, that could not be too soon.
  Something else Baudelio wanted was his woman in Lima. He knew she was a
  slut, had been a prostitute, and was a drunkard like himself, but in the
  messy detritus of his shattered life, she was all he had and he missed
  her. His own empty loneliness had been the reason for his illicit use,
  a week ago, of one of the cellular phones to call his woman from the
  Hackensack house. Since making that call, against Miguel's orders,
  Baudelio had worried a lot, dreading that Miguel would find out. But the
  call had apparently gone undiscovered, for which he was relieved.
  Oh, how he needed that drink!
            The Evening News     361

  The chocolate, while not a lasting substitute for food, had helped.
  Jessica did not waste mental effort wondering why the sourfaced woman had
  so impetuously left a chocolate bar, apart from noting that she was a
  person of unpredictable moods. Instead Jessica concealed the chocolate in
  a pocket of her dress, keeping it out of sight of the armed men aboard.
  While traveling upriver, Jessica gave most of the chocolate to Nicky, but
  ate some herself and insisted that Angus have some too. It was important,
  she pointed out, keeping her voice low, that they all preserve their
  strength-which was clearly ebbing after the time in the open truck, then
  the exhausting march through the jungle and now their several hours in the
  boat.
  As to the length of time the three of them had been unconscious, Jessica
  realized there was a clue in Angus's growth of beard. She hadn't noticed
  before, but the unshaved gray hairs on his face were surprisingly long.
  When she pointed this out, Angus felt his face and estimated it was four
  or five days since his last shave.
  Perhaps that wasn't important now, but Jessica was still absorbing all the
  information she could, a reason she tried to stay alert during the river
  journey.
  There wasn't much to see, except thickly growing trees and foliage on both
  banks, and the river itself winding sinuously, hardly ever in a straight
  line. Several times small canoes were visible in the distance, but none
  came close.
  Throughout the journey Jessica was plagued by constant itching. Earlier,
  in the hut where she first returned to consciousness seated on the dirt
  floor, she had been aware of insects crawling on her. Now she realized they
  were fleas, which had stayed with her and were biting persistently. But
  short of stripping, there was no way she could remove them. She hoped that
  wherever she and the others were being taken, there would be ample water
  so she could wash the fleas away.
  Like everyone else, Jessica, Nicky and Angus were soaked in the deluge of
  rain shortly before landing at Nueva Esperanza. But as their boat made fast
  against a crude wooden jetty,
 362        ARTHUR HAILEY

 the rain stopped as suddenly as it had begun, and at that same moment the
 spirits of all three sank as they saw the awful, forbidding place ahead.
  Beyond a rough and muddy path from the riverbank was a series of
  dilapidated houses, about two dozen in all, some merely shacks built
  partly from old packing cases and rusted corrugated iron and supplemented
  by bamboo stems. Most of the houses were windowless, though two had what
  appeared to be small storefronts. Thatched roofs showed disrepair, and
  some had gaping holes. Discarded cans and other garbage littered the
  surrounding area. A few scrawny chickens ran loose. Off to one side, a
  dead dog was being pecked by buzzards.
  Could there possibly be something better farther on? The dismal answer
  appeared when a rough, now muddy road leading out of the hamlet came into
  sight. The road climbed a hill and on either side, beyond the few houses
  already in view, was nothing but two barricading walls of jungle. At the
  top of the hill the road disappeared.
  Later, Jessica and the others would learn that Nueva Esperanza was
  basically a fishing village, though Sendero Luminoso used it from time
  to time for purposes the organization wanted hidden.
  "- Vdyanse a tierral iMu&anse! iApfirense!" Gustavo shouted at the
  prisoners, at the same time signaling them to move. Dejected, dreading
  whatever was to come, Jessica and the other two obeyed.
  What happened minutes later was even worse than they had feared.
  After being escorted by Gustavo and four more armed men up the muddy
  path, they were herded into a shack which stood farthest from the river.
  Inside, it took a few moments for their eyes to adjust to the
  semidarkness. When they did, Jessica screamed in anguish.
  "Oh, my god, no! You can't shut us in those! Not in cages, like animals!
  Please! Please no!"
  What she had seen set against the far wall were three partitioned cells
  about eight feet square. Thin but strong bamboo stalks, securely
  fastened, were a substitute for bars. Addition-
              The Evening News     363

 ally, between each cell, wire screening had been nailed so there could be no
 physical contact between adjoining occupants or anything passed from one
 enclosure to another. At the front of each cell was a door fitted with a
 sliding steel bar and, outside, a heavy padlock.
  Inside each cell was a low wooden bed and a thin, soiled mattress,
  alongside the bed a galvanized pail, presumably intended as a toilet. The
  whole place stank.
  While Jessica pleaded and protested, Gustavo seized her. Though she
  continued struggling, his hands were like steel. Impelling her forward, he
  ordered, "i Pete para adentro!" Then in halting Fnglish, "You go in there."
  "In there" was the enclosure farthest from the shack's outer door and, with
  a forceful shove, Gustavo pushed Jessica to the inside wall. As she fell
  against it, the cell door closed and she heard the padlock's metallic
  click. Outside, at the opposite end of the shack, she could hear Angus
  fighting and arguing too, but he was subdued, thrown in, and the padlock
  fastened. In the cell next to her own, Jessica heard Nicky sobbing.
  Tears of rage, frustration and despair coursed down her cheeks.

                8

 A week and a half had passed since the sixty temporary recruits had been
 turned loose by CBA News to make a study of the region's local newspapers,
 searching for a headquarters that the Sloane family's kidnappers might have
 used. However, no progress had been made, nor had there been developments in
 other areas.
  The FBI, while not saying specifically it had reached a dead end, had
  nothing new to report. The CIA, now rumored to be involved, would make no
  statement.
  What everyone was waiting for, it seemed, was some word
 364        ARTHUR DAILEY

 from the kidnappers, presumably accompanied by demands. So far it hadn't
 happened.
  The kidnap story was still very much in the news, though on TV newscasts
  it had ceased to be the lead item, and in newspapers was usually on an
  inside page.
  Despite the apparent waning of the public interest, there was no shortage
  of speculation. Among the news media there appeared a growing belief that
  the kidnap victims had somehow been spirited from the country and were
  overseas. As to precisely where, most hypotheses centered on the Middle
  Fast.
  Only at CBA News were there contrary indications. Because of the special
  task force identification of a Colombian terrorist, Ulises Rodriguez, as
  a kidnap gang participant and perhaps the gang's leader, Latin America
  had become the focus of attention. Unfortunately, no particular country
  had been determined as the kidnappers' base.
  To the surprise of everyone involved, knowledge of the Rodriguez
  connection remained exclusively with CBA News. It had been expected that
  the discovery would quickly be duplicated by other networks and
  newspapers and thus become public information, but while that could still
  occur at any time, it hadn't yet. There was even some unease at CBA about
  the News Division's continuing to withhold its knowledge concerning
  Rodriguez from the FBI.
  Meanwhile CBA, more than other networks, kept the kidnap story
  aggressively alive, using a technique borrowed from rival CBS. During the
  1979-81 Iran hostage crisis, Walter Cronkite, then CBS Evening News
  anchorman, concluded each broadcast with the words, "And that's the way
  it is [the date], the _th day of captivity for the American hostages in
  Iran." (The number of days eventually totaled 444).
  As Barbara Matusow, broadcasting's historian and conscience, recorded in
  her book The Evening Stars, Cronkite made "a decision that the hostages
  . . . were so important that the spotlight of national attention should
  not stray from them, even for a single night."
  Similarly, Harry Partridge, still acting as second anchor for any item
  concerning the Sloane kidnap, now began, "On this
            The Evening News     365

 the [numbered] day since the brutal kidnapping of the wife, son and father
 of CBA News anchorman Crawford Sloane
 The item itself then followed.
  As a matter of policy, approved by Les Chippingharn and agreed to by
  executive producer Chuck Insen, there was always a Sloane kidnap reference
  in every National Evening News, even if only to record the absence of any
  new development.
  But on a Wednesday morning, ten days after the search of local newspapers
  began, an event occurred which put everything at CBA News in high gear once
  more. It also ended the inactivity that had frustrated all members of the
  special task force.
  At the time Harry Partridge was in his private office. He looked up to see
  Teddy Cooper in the doorway and, behind him, Jonathan Mony, the young black
  man who had made so strong an impression earlier when the temporary
  researchers were assembling.
  "We may have something, Harry," Cooper said.
  Partridge waved the two in.
  "Jonathan will tell you." Cooper motioned to Mony. "Go ahead."
  "Yesterday I went to a local newspaper in Astoria, Mr. Partridge," Mony
  began confidently. "That's in Queens, near Jackson Heights. Did all the
  things you said, found nothing. Then, coming out, I saw the office of a
  Spanish-language weekly called Sernana. It wasn't on the list, but I went
  in."
  "You speak Spanish?"
  Mony nodded. "Pretty well. Anyway, I asked to check their issues for those
  dates we've been watching and they let me. Nothing there either, but as I
  was leaving they gave me their latest issue. I took it home, looked through
  it last night."
  "And brought it to me this morning," Cooper said. He produced a
  tabloid-style newspaper which he spread on Partridge's desk. "Here's a
  column we think will interest you, and a translation Jonathan has written."
  Partridge glanced at the paper, then read the translation, typed on a
  single sheet.
 366        ARTHUR HAILEY

   Hello, You wouldn't think, would you, that some people buy funeral
   caskets the way you and me pick up cheese at the grocery. Happens,
   though; ask Alberto Godoy of Godoy's Funeral Home.
   Seems this guy came in from the street and bought two caskets just like
   that off the shetl~-one regular, one small, Said he wanted to take them
   to his old Mom and Dad, the tiny one for Morn. Hey, how's that for a
   hint to the old folks? "Time to beat it, Mom and Dad, the party's
   over!"
   Don't go away, there's more. Last week, that's six weeks later, this
   same guy comes back, he wants another casket like before, regular size.
   He took it away, paid cash, same as he did for the other two. Didn't
   say who this one was for. Wonder if his wife's been cheating.
   Tell you who doesn't care, that's Albert Godoy. Says he's ready and
   eagerfor more business of the same kind

  "There's something else, Harry," Cooper said. "A few minutes ago we
  phoned the Semana office. Jonathan talked and we got lucky. The bloke who
  wrote the column was there."
  "What he told me," Mony said, "was that the day he wrote the piece you
  read was a week ago last Friday. He'd just seen Godoy in a bar and Godoy
  had sold the third casket that same day.,,
  "Which also," Cooper added, "happened to be right after the snatch, the
  very next day."
  "Wait," Partridge said. "Don't talk. Let me think."
  While the others were silent, he considered.
  Stay calm, he told himself. Don't get carried away! But the possibilities
  were unmistakable: The first two caskets, purchased six weeks before the
  kidnap, only slightly ahead of the estimated one-month surveillance of
  the Sloane family, and within the three-months' maximum operation time
  also estimated by the task force. Then the size of the two caskets: one
  regular, one small, the second said to be for an old woman, but it could
  also be for an eleven-year-old boy.
  Next, the third casket-according to the newspaper, a regular size.
  Established fact: Crawf's father, the old man, Angus,
            The Evening News     367

 had arrived at the Sloane house virtually unexpected, having phoned only the
 day before. So if the family hadn't expected him, neither had the
 kidnappers. Yet they captured him and took him with Jessica and the boy.
 Three captives instead of two.
  Questions: Did the kidnappers already have two caskets? Did the old man
  cause them to acquire a third? Was it for -him the extra one was bought
  from Godoy's Funeral Home the next day after the kidnap?
  Or was the whole thing merely an incredible coincidence? It might be. Or
  might not.
  Partridge raised his eyes to the other two who were regarding him intently.
  Cooper said, "Raiies a f6w questions, don't it?"
  "Do you think . - ."
  "What I think is, we may have found how Mrs. Sloane and the others could
  have been taken out of the country."
  "In caskets? Do you believe they were dead?"
  Cooper shook his head. "Doped. It's been done before."
  The statement confirmed what Partridge was already thinking.
  "What happens next, Mr. Partridge?" The question was from Mony.
  "As soon as we can, we'll interview that funeral man
 Partridge glanced at the typed translation to which had been added the
 funeral home's address. "Godoy. I'll do it myself
  "I'd like to come with you."
  "I think he earned it, Harry," Cooper urged.
  "So do L" Partridge smiled at Mony. "Nice going, Jonathan."
  The young researcher beamed.
  They would leave immediately and take a cameraman, Partridge decided. He
  instructed Cooper, "Minh Van Canh is in the conference room, I think. Tell
  him to grab his gear and join
 US."
  As Cooper left, Partridge picked up a telephone and ordered a network car.
  On the way out, passing through the main newsroom, he
 368        ARTHUR DAILEY

 and Mony encountered Don Kettering, CBA's business correspondent. When news
 of the Sloane kidnap broke, it had been Kettering who was assigned to the
 flash studio "hot seat" and became first to go on the air with a special
 bulletin.
  Now he asked, "Anything new, Harry?" Impeccably dressed in a brown tailored
  suit, his thin mustache neatly trimmed, Kettering, as always, looked like
  a prosperous businessman himself.
  About to make a perfunctory answer and hurry by, Partridge hesitated. He
  respected Kettering not only as a specialist, but as a first class
  reporter. With his background, Kettering might be more at home than
  Partridge with the subject they were about to tackle.
  "Something has come up, Don. What are you doing now?"
  "Not much. Wall Street's quiet today. Need some help?"
  "Could be. Come with us. I'll explain as we go."
  "Let me tell the Horseshoe." Kettering picked up a phone on the nearest
  desk. "Be right behind you."
  A network Jeep Wagoneer reached the main entrance of CBA News headquarters
  less than a minute after Partridge, Mony and Minh Van Canh emerged onto the
  street. The cameraman climbed into the rear seat with his equipment, Mony
  helping. Partridge took the front seat beside the driver. As the front door
  slammed, Don Kettering arrived and squeezed into the rear.
  "We're going to Queens," Partridge told the driver. He had brought the
  Semana newspaper and Mony's translation with him and read out the Godoy's
  Funeral Home address.
  Making a fast U-turn and facing east, the driver headed for the Queensboro
  Bridge.
  "Don," Partridge said, swiveling around in his seat. "Here's what we know
  and what we're wondering . . ."

  Twenty minutes later, in Alberto Godoy's cluttered, smoky office, Harry
  Partridge, Don Kettering and Jonathan Mony faced the obese, bald funeral
  home proprietor across his desk. The trio had simply walked in after
  resisting questions from a woman receptionist.
            The Evening News     369

  On Partridge's instructions, Minh Van Canh remained outside in the Jeep
  Wagoneer. If any pictures were needed, he would be called in later.
  Meanwhile, from the vehicle, Van Canh was discreetly videotaping the Godoy
  building.
  From behind his usual lighted cigarette, the undertaker regarded the
  visitors suspiciously. For their part, they had already taken in the shabby
  establishment, Godoy's bloated features which suggested heavy drinking, and
  the food stains on his black coat and gray-striped pants. This was not a
  quality establishment and probably not a scrupulously run one either.
  "Mr. Godoy," Partridge said, "as I told your lady outside, we're all from
  CBA News."
  Godoy's expression changed to interest. "Ain't I seen you on the tube?
  Comin' from the White House?"
  "That's John Cochran; people sometimes mix us up. He works for NBC. I'm
  Harry Partridge."
  Godoy slapped a hand against his knee. "You been doin' all them kidnap
  bits."
  "Yes, I have, and that's partly why we're here. May we sit down?"
  Godoy motioned to chairs. Partridge and the others sat facing him.
  Producing his copy of Semana, Partridge asked. "May I ask if you've seen
  this?"
  Godoy's features soured. "That lousy, snooping son of a bitch! He had no
  right to print something he overheard, that wasn't said to him."
  "Then you have seen the paper and know what's in it."
  "Sure I know. So what?"
  "We'd appreciate your answering some questions, Mr. Godoy. First, what was
  the name of the man who bought the caskets? What did he look like? Can you
  describe him to us?"
  The undertaker shook his head. "All that's my private business."
  "It is important." Deliberately, Partridge kept his voice low-keyed and
  friendly. "It's even possible there's a connection to something you just
  mentioned-the Sloane family kidnapping.,,
 370        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Don't see how there could be." Then Godoy added stubbornly, "Anyway, it's
  private, so nothin' doing. And if you all don't mind, I've got work to do."
  Don Kettering spoke for the first time. "How about the price you charged
  for those caskets, Godoy? Want to tell us what it was?"
  The undertaker's face flushed. "How many times I gotta tell you people? I'm
  minding my business. You mind yours."
  "Oh, we'll do that," Kettering said. "In fact we'll make it our business
  to go directly from here to the New York City sales tax office. Even though
  it says in this report"-he touched the copy of Semana--that you were paid
  all cash for those three caskets, I'm sure you collected, reported and paid
  New York sales tax, which will be a matter of public record, including the
  purchaser's name." Kettering turned to Partridge. "Harry, why don't we
  leave this uncooperative person and go to the sales tax people now?"
  Godoy who a moment earlier had paled, now spluttered, "Hey, hold it! Just
  a minute!"
  Kettering turned, his expression innocent. "Yes?"
  "Maybe I . . .
  "Maybe you didn't pay any sales tax, didn't report it either, though I'll
  bet you charged it." Kettering's voice became harsh; abandoning any
  pretense of friendliness, he leaned forward over the undertaker's desk.
  Partridge, who had not seen the business correspondent in action in this
  way before, was delighted he had brought him.
  "Listen to me carefully, Godoy," Kettering continued. "A network like ours
  has a lot of clout and if we have to, we'll use it, especially because
  right now we're fighting for one of our own gainst a filthy crime, the
  seizure of his family. We need answers to questions fast, and if you help
  us we'll try to help you by not revealing what isn't important as far as
  we're concerned, like the sales tax or income tax-you've probably cheated
  the IRS, too. But if we don't get honest answers, we'll bring in-here,
  today-the FBI, the New York police, the sales tax force and the IRS. So
  take your choice. You can deal with us or them."
            The Evening News     371

  Godoy was licking his lips. "I'll answer your questions, fellas." His
  voice sounded strained.
  Kettering nodded. "Your turn, Harry."
  "Mr. Godoy," Partridge said, "who was it bought those caskets?"
  "He said his name was Novack. I didn't believe him."
  "You were probably right. Know anything else about him?"
  "No.,,

  Partridge reached into a pocket. "I'm going to show you a picture. Simply
  tell me your reaction." He held out a photocopy of the twenty-year-old
  charcoal sketch of Ulises Rodriguez.
  Without hesitation Godoy said, "That's him. That's Novack. He's older
  than the picture . . ."
  "Yes, we know. You're absolutely sure?"
  "Dead sure. Seen him twice. He sat where you are."
  For the first time since today's procession of events began, Partridge
  felt a surge of satisfaction. Once more the special task force had scored
  an investigative breakthrough. A positive connection between the caskets
  and the kidnap was established. Glancing at Kettering and Mony, he knew
  they realized it too.
  "Let's go over this Novack's conversation with you," he told Alberto
  Godoy. "From the beginning."
  During the questions and answers following, Partridge extracted as much
  from the undertaker as he could. In the end, however, it was not a lot
  and it became clear that Ulises Rodriguez had been careful not to leave
  a trail behind him.
  Partridge asked Kettering, "Any other thoughts, Don?"
  "One or two."
  Kettering addressed Godoy. "About that cash Novack paid you. I believe
  you said, adding both lots, it was nearly $ 10,000, mainly in
  hundred-dollar bills. Right?"
  "Right."
  "Anything special about them?"
  Godoy shook his head. "What's special about money, except it's money?"
  "Were they new bills?"
 372        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The undertaker considered. "A few may have been, but mostly no."
  "What has happened to all that cash?"
  "It's gone. I used it, spent it, paid some bills." Godoy shrugged.
  "Nowadays money goes fast."
  Jonathan Mony had been watching the undertaker intently throughout the
  questioning. Earlier, when the talk turned to the cash, he was sure he
  detected nervousness on Godoy's part. He had the same feeling now. On a
  notepad he scribbled a message and passed it to Kettering. It read: He's
  lying. He has some of the cash left. He's scared to tell us because he's
  still worrying about taxes-sales and income.
  The business correspondent read the note, gave the slightest of nods and
  passed it back. Speaking mildly, at the same time rising as if ready to
  leave, he asked Godoy, "Is there anything else you remember, or that you
  might have, which could be helpful to us?" As he concluded, Kettering
  turned away.
  Godoy, now relaxed and confident, obviously wanting this to end, answered,
  "Not a damn thing."
  Kettering spun on his heels. His face contorted, red with anger, he strode
  to the desk, leaned over and gripped the undertaker by the shoulders.
  Pulling the other forward until their faces were close, Kettering spat out
  the words, "You're a goddamn liar, Godoy. You still have some of that cash.
  And since you won't show it to us, we'll see if the IRS can get to see it.
  I told you we wouldn't call them if you helped us. Well, that's all over
  now."
  Kettering pushed Godoy back into his chair, reached into a pocket for a
  slim address book and pulled a desk telephone toward him.
  Godoy shouted, "No!" He wrenched the telephone away. Breathing heavily, he
  growled, "You bastard! All right, I'll show you."
  "Understand," Kettering said, "this is the last time we fool around. After
  this . . ."
  Godoy, standing, was already removing a framed embalmer's certificate from
  the wall behind his desk. It revealed a safe. The undertaker spun the
  combination lock.
            The Evening News     373

  A few minutes later, while the others watched, Kettering carefully examined
  the cash Godoy had extracted from the safe -nearly $4,000. During his
  inspection the business correspondent looked closely at both sides of every
  bill, at the same time separating them into three piles-two fairly small,
  the third larger. At the end he pushed the larger pile toward Godoy and
  motioned to the two remaining.
  "We need to borrow these. We'll give you a proper receipt on behalf of CBA
  News. You can add the serial numbers if you like, and Mr. Partridge and I
  will both sign the receipt. I personally guarantee you will have all the
  money back within forty-eight hours with no more questions."
  Godoy said gr-udgingly, "I guess that's okay."
  Kettering motioned Partridge and Mony closer to the two small piles of
  bills. All were of one-hundred dollar denomination.
  "Lots of business people," Kettering said, "are wary of hundred-dollar
  bills for fear they might be counterfeit. So what they often do is write
  on a bill, showing where it came from. For instance, if you take out a
  rental car and pay with hundreddollar bills when turning it in, Hertz or
  whoever will write the rental contract number on each bill, which means
  they can trace you later if a bill is bad. For the same reason some tellers
  in banks note the depositor's name or account number on hundred-dollar
  bills paid in."
  "I've seen that on hundreds sometimes," Partridge said, "and wondered why."
  "Not me," Mony interjected. "That kind of paper doesn't come my way."
  Kettering smiled. "Stick with TV, kid. It will in time."
  The business correspondent continued, "All those marks on money are
  illegal, of course. Defacing the currency can be a criminal offense, though
  it's seldom, if ever, enforced. Anyway, what we have in this first stack
  of bills is written numbers, and in the second, names. If you like, Harry,
  I'll show the number groups to banking friends who may recognize who uses
  them, then will float them through computers. As to the names, I'll
 374        ARTHUR HAILEY

 go through the phone book and try to locate whoever had those hundred-dollar
 bills and used them."
  "I think I see where we're headed," Partridge said. "But just spell out,
  Don, exactly what we're looking for."
  "We're looking for banks. Whatever information we get should lead us to
  banks which at some point received those bills; maybe someone in a bank
  wrote on them the names or numbers that you see. Then, if we're
  exceptionally lucky, we may identify the bank that actually handled all of
  this money and paid it out."
  "I get it," Mony said. "Paid it out to the kidnappers who used it to buy
  those caskets from Mr. Godoy."
  Kettering nodded. "Exactly. Of course, it's all a long shot, but if it
  works we shall know the bank the kidnappers used and where they probably
  had an account." The business correspondent shrugged. "Once we have that,
  Harry, your investigation can move on from there."
  "That's great, Don," Partridge said. "And we've done well on long shots so
  far."
  Catching sight of the copy of Semana that had brought them here, he
  remembered Uncle Arthur's words when the search of local newspapers was
  begun: "A thing about long shots is that while you seldom find exactly what
  you're looking for, you're likely to stumble over something else that will
  help you in a different way.

                 9

 In Alberto Godoy's office, tensions were easing.
  Now that the demands of his high-pressure visitors from TV news were
  satisfied and the overhanging threat to himself removed, the funeral
  director relaxed. After all, Godoy reminded himself, he had done nothing
  illegal in selling the three caskets to Novack, or whatever his real name
  was. How was he
            The Evening News     375

 supposed to know the goddamn caskets would be used for something criminal?
 Oh sure, he had suspicions about Novack both times he came in, and hadn't
 believed a word of his phony story about why he wanted caskets. But let
 anyone try to prove that. No way! They couldn't!
  The two things he had been worried about when today's shindig started were
  the city sales tax, which he collected for the first two caskets but hadn't
  reported, and the fact that he'd cooked his books so that the ten grand
  cash he took from Novack didn't appear anywhere as income. If the IRS found
  out, they'd create seventeen kinds of shit from that. Well, these TV dudes
  had promised not to squeal about either of those finagles and he reckoned
  they'd keep their word. The way he'd heard it, making those kinds of deals
  was how TV news people gathered a lot of their information. And he had to
  admit, now that it was over, he'd got a charge out of watching them at
  work. But he sure as hell wouldn't talk about anything that happened today
  if that snooping asshole from the Sernana rag was anywhere around.
  "If you'll give me a sheet of paper," Don Kettering said, pointing to the
  two small piles of bills still remaining on the desk, "I'll write out a
  receipt for this money we'll be taking."
  Godoy opened a drawer behind his desk in which he kept odds and ends and
  removed a pad of lined paper. As he was closing the drawer, he caught sight
  of a single sheet torn from a scratch pad, bearing his own handwriting. He
  had stuffed the paper in more than a week ago and forgotten it until now.
  "Hey, here's something! That second time Novack showed . . ."
 "What is it?" Partridge asked sharply.
  "I told you he had a Caddy hearse, with another guy driving. They took the
  casket away in it."
 "Yes, you did."
  Godoy held out the scratch-pad sheet. "This was the hearse license number.
  I wrote it down, put it in here, forgot."
 Kettering asked, "Why did you do that?"
 "Maybe a hunch." Godoy shrugged. "Does it matter?"
 "No," Partridge said, "it doesn't. Anyway, thanks; we'll
 376        ARTHUR BAILEY

 check this out." He folded the paper and put it in a pocket, though was not
 hopeful about the outcome. He remembered that the license number of the
 Nissan van in the White Plains explosion had been phony and led nowhere.
 Still, any lead had to be pursued, nothing taken for granted.
  Partridge's thoughts moved on to more specific reporting. He reasoned that
  some or most of what they had uncovered, including the involvement of
  Ulises Rodriguez, would have to go on air soon, almost certainly within the
  next few days. There was a limit to how much information could remain
  dammed up at CBA; though luck had been with them so far, it could change
  at any moment. Also they were in the news business. Partridge felt his
  excitement rise at the prospect of reporting progress and decided that
  right now he had to think in terms of presentation.
  "Mr. Godoy," Partridge said, "we may have got off on the wrong foot to
  begin, but you've been pretty helpful to us. How would you feel about
  making a video recording, repeating most of what you've told us here?"
  The idea of being on TV, and a network no less, appealed to Godoy. Then he
  realized the publicity would expose him to all kinds of questions,
  including those about taxes which had worried him earlier. He shook his
  head. "No thanks."
  As if reading his mind, Partridge said, "We needn't say who you are or show
  your face. We can do what's called a silhouette interview, using
  backlighting so viewers will only see a shadow. We can even disguise your
  voice."
  "It'll sound like it's coming through a coffee grinder," Kettering added.
  "Your own wife won't recognize it. Come on, Godoy, what have you got to
  lose? We've a cameraman sitting outside who's a real expert, and you'll be
  helping us get those kidnapped people back."
  "Well . . ." The undertaker hesitated. "Would you guys promise to keep it
  confidential, not to tell anybody else?"
  "I promise that," Partridge said.
  "Me too," Kettering agreed.
  Mony added, "Count me in."
  Kettering and Partridge glanced at each other, aware that
            The Evening News     377

 the promise they had made and would keep-the way honest journalists did, no
 matter what the consequences---could cause them problems later. The FBI and
 others might object to the secrecy, demanding to know who the silhouette
 subject was. Well, the network's lawyers would have to handle that; there
 had been brouhahas of the same kind before.
  Partridge remembered when NBC in 1986 had secured a much-sought-after but
  controversial interview with the Palestinian terrorist Mohammed Abul Abbas.
  Afterward, a bevy of critics denounced NBC, not only for holding the
  inter-view but for a prior agreement-which the network honored-not to
  disclose its location. Even a few media people joined in, though clearly
  some professional jealousy was involved. While argument thrived, a U.S.
  State Department spokesman hiiffed and puffed and the Justice Department
  threatened subpoenas and interrogation of an on-the-scene TV crew, but
  eventually nothing happened. (The then Secretary of State, George Shultz,
  only said when questioned, "I believe in freedom of the press.")
  The fact was, and everyone knew it, broadcast networks were in many ways
  a law unto themselves. For one thing, few government departments or
  politicians wanted to tangle with them legally. Also, free-world
  journalism, on the whole, stood for disclosure, freedom and integrity.
  Sure, it wasn't totally that way; standards fell short more often than they
  should because journalism's practitioners were human too. But if you became
  an inexorable opponent of what journalism stood for, the chances were you
  belonged on the side of "dirty" instead of "clean."
  While Harry Partridge considered those fundamentals of his craft, Minh Van
  Canh was setting up for the videotape interview of Alberto Godoy which Don
  Kettering would conduct.
  Partridge had suggested that Kettering do the interview, in part because
  the business correspondent clearly wanted to continue his involvement with
  the Sloane kidnapping-it was, after all, a subject close to the hearts and
  minds of the entire News Division. Also, there were other aspects of the
  subject that Partridge intended to handle himself.
 378        ARTHUR RAILEY

  He had already decided that he would leave for Bogotd, Colombia, as soon as
  lie could get away. Despite sharing the opinion of his Colombian radio
  reporter friend that Ulises Rodriguez was not in that country, Partridge
  believed the time had come to begin his own search of Latin America, and
  Colombia was the obvious place to start.
  Minh Van Canh announced he was ready to begin.
  A few minutes earlier, on being called in from outside and looking around
  the funeral establishment, Minh had decided to set up the interview in the
  basement where caskets were exhibited. Because of the special backlighting,
  not much of the display room would be seen; only the wall behind where
  Godoy was seated was floodlit, with the interviewee in gloom. However,
  alongside the silhouette of Godoy was now another of a casket, an
  ingeniously macabre effect. The disguising of the undertaker's voice would
  be done later at CBA News headquarters.
  Today there was no sound man present and Minh was using one-man equipment,
  a Betacam with half-inch tape incorporating picture and sound. He had also
  brought along a small viewing monitor and placed it so that Godoy, now
  seated, could observe exactly what the camera was seeing-a technique cal-
  culated to make the subject, in such special circumstances, more relaxed.
  Godoy was not only relaxed, but amused. "Hey," he told Kettering, seated
  nearby, off camera, "you cats are smart."
  Kettering, who had his own ideas about the way this interview should go,
  gave only a thin smile as he looked up from notes scribbled a few minutes
  earlier. At a nod from Minh, he began, having allowed for an introduction
  to be written later, which would precede the on-air showing.
  "The first time you saw the man whom you now know to have been the
  terrorist Ulises Rodriguez, what was your impression?"
  "Nothing special. Seemed ordinary to me." Even under this concealment,
  Godoy decided, he wasn't going to admit being suspicious of
  Novack-alias-Rodriguez.
            The Evening News     379

  "So it didn't trouble you at all when you sold him two caskets initially,
  then one more later on?"
  The silhouette shrugged. "Why should it? That's the business I'm in. "
  "'Why should itT you say." Repeating Godoy's words, Kettering managed to
  convey skepticism. "But isn't that kind of sale exceedingly unusual?"
  " Maybe . . . sort of."
  "And as a funeral director, don't you normally arrange, or sell, what's
  called a package-a complete funeral?"
  "Most of the time, sure."
  "In fact, isn't it true that before you made those two sales to the
  terrorist Rodriguez, you had never, ever, sold caskets in that way before?"
  Kettering was guessing, but reasoned Godoy wouldn't know he was, and in a
  recorded exchange would not lie.
  ,,I guess so," Godoy muttered. The interview was already not going the way
  he had expected. In the partial gloom he glared at Kettering, but the
  newsman persisted.
  "In other words, the answer is no, you hadn't sold caskets that way
  before."
  The undertaker's voice rose. "I figured it was none of my business what he
  wanted them for."
  "Did you give any thought at all to communicating with authorities-the
  police, for example-and saying something like, 'Look, I've been asked to
  do something strange, something I've never been asked before, and I wonder
  if you'd like to check this person out.' Did you consider that?"
  "No, I didn't. There was no reason to."
  "Because you weren't suspicious?"
  "Right."
  Kettering bored in. "Then if you were not suspicious, why is it that on the
  second occasion Rodriguez visited you, you covertly wrote down the license
  number of the hearse he was using to take away the casket and kept that
  information hidden until today?"
  Godoy roared angrily, "Now, look! Because I told you something
  coikfidential, it don't mean . . ."
 380        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Correction, Mr. Funeral Director! You did not say anything about that
  being confidential."
  "Well, I meant to."
  "There's quite a difference. And incidentally, neither did you say it was
  confidential when you revealed before this interview that the price you
  charged for those three take-out caskets was almost ten thousand dollars.
  For the kind of caskets you described, wasn't that a high price?"
  "The guy who bought them didn't complain. Why should you?"
  "Perhaps he didn't complain for his own good reasons." Kettering's voice
  became icy and accusatory. "Didn't you ask that excessively high price
  because you knew the man would pay it, knew all the time there was
  something suspicious, and you could take advantage of the situation, get
  yourself some extra money . . ."
  "Hey, I don't have to sit here and take that garbage! Forget all this! I'm
  getting out," Angrily, Godoy rose from his chair and walked away, the line
  from a microphone separating as he did. The route brought him closer to the
  Betacam, and Minh, swinging it as a reflex action, caught him full-face and
  in light so, in effect, Godoy violated his own confidentiality. There would
  be discussion lat,~r as to whether that closing sequence should be used or
  not.
  "You bastard!" Godoy stormed at Kettering.
  The business correspondent told him, "I don't like you either. "
  "Listen," Godoy said to Partridge, "I cancel the arrangement." He pointed
  to the Betacam. "You're not to use that. Understand?"
  "I understand what you're saying," Partridge said. "But I can't guarantee
  we won't use it. That will be up to the network."
  "Get the hell out of here!" Alberto Godoy glowered as the recording
  equipment was dismantled and the CBA News quartet departed from his
  premises.
            The Evening News     381

  During the ride back from Queens, Don Kettering announced, "I'd like to
  drop off as soon as we're in Manhattan. I want to start tracing that
  marked money and there's an office on Lex where I can do some phoning."
  "Is it possible," Jonathan Mony said, "that I could come with you?" He
  glanced at Partridge. "I'd very much like to see how the other half of
  what we did today works out."
  "Okay with me," Kettering assured him. "If Harry says yes, I'll show you
  some nuts-and-bolts reporting."
  Partridge agreed and they separated after crossing the Queensboro Bridge.
  While the Jeep Wagoneer continued on to CBA News, Kettering and Mony took
  a taxi to a brokerage office off Lexington Avenue near the Summit Hotel.
  On entering, they were in a spacious room where about two dozen
  people--some seated, others standing-faced an overhead screen displaying
  swiftly moving stock market quotations. A dark green carpet contrasted
  with light green walls; comfortable chairs, fixed to the floor in rows,
  were upholstered in green and orange tweed. Some of those intently
  watching the market figures held notebooks with pencils poised; others
  were less concerned. A young oriental man was studying sheets of music;
  a few more were reading newspapers; several dozed.
  Off to one side was a row of computers and some extension phones, a sign
  above them reading, LIFT RECEIVER FOR TRADING. Several phones were in
  use; despite lowered voices, snatches of conversation could be heard.
  "You bought two thousand? Sell." . . . "Can you get five hundred at
  eighteen? Do it." . . . "Okay, get out at fifteen and a quarter."
  On the room's far side a receptionist saw the two newsmen come in and
  with a smile of recognition at Kettering, picked up a telephone. Behind
  her were several doors, some open, leading to interior offices.
  "Take a look around you," Kettering told Mony. "This kind of stock shop
  will be history soon; this is one of the last. Most others have
  disappeared the way speakeasies did after prohibition epded."
  "Stock trading hasn't ended, though."
  "True. But brokers looked at their costs and found places
 382        ARTHUR HAILEY

 like this don't pay. Too many people coming in to rest or just out of
 curiosity. Then the homeless began joining them-in winter, what better place
 to spend a warm, relaxing day? Unfortunately, the homeleis don't generate a
 lot of brokerage commissions."
  "Maybe you should do a piece for the news," Mony said. "Nostalgic, the way
  you just said, before the last of these goes."
  Kettering looked at him sharply. "That's a helluva good idea, young fella.
  Why didn't I think of it? I'll talk to the Horseshoe next week."
  Behind the receptionist, a closed door opened and a beetlebrowed, burly man
  came forward, greeting Kettering warmly. "Don, it's good to see you. You
  haven't been around lately, though we're your faithful followers on the
  news. Is there something we can do?"
  "Thanks, Kevin." Kettering pointed to Mony. "My young colleague, Jonathan,
  would like the name of a stock he can buy today which will quadruple in
  value by tomorrow. Apart from that, is there a desk and a phone I can use
  for half an hour?"
  "The desk and phone, no problem. Come through to the back and use mine;
  you'll be more private. About the other thing-sorry, Jonathan, our crystal
  ball's out being serviced. If it comes back while you're here, I'll let you
  know."
  They were shown into a small comfortable office with a mahogany desk, two
  leather chairs, the inevitable computer and a phone. A name on the door
  read: Kevin Fane.
  "Make yourself at home," Fane said, "and I'll send in coffee and
  sandwiches."
  When they were alone, Kettering told Mony, "When Kevin and I were at
  college, during summers we worked as runners on the floor of the New York
  Stock Exchange and we've kept in touch since. Want some professional
  advice?"
  Mony nodded. "Sure do."
  "As a correspondent, which it looks as if you may be, always keep lots of
  contacts, not just at high levels but lower ones too, and drop in to keep
  them green, the way we're doing now. It's a means of picking up
  information, sometimes when you least expect. Also remember that people
  like to help TV report-
              The Evening News     383

 ers; even just letting you use their phone makes them feel closer to you
 and, in a strange way, grateful."
  While speaking, Kettering had withdrawn from an inside pocket the several
  hundred-dollar bills borrowed from Alberto Godoy, and spread them on the
  desk. He opened a drawer and found a sheet of paper to make notes.
  "First we'll try our luck with the bills that have names written on them.
  Later, if needed, we'll work on those with account numbers only." Picking
  up a bill, he read out, "James W. Mortell" and addcd, "this hundred
  smackeroos passed through his hands at some time. See if you can find him
  in the Manhattan phone book, Jonathan."
  Within moments Mony announced, "He's here." He read the number aloud while
  Kettering tapped out digits on the phone. After two rings a pleasant
  woman's voice answered, "Mortell Plumbing."
  "Good morning. Is Mr. Mortell in, please?"
  "He's out on a job. This is his wife. Can I help?" Not only pleasant, but
  young and charming, Kettering thought.
  "Thank you, Mrs. Mortell. My name is Don Kettering. I'm the business
  correspondent of CBA News."
  A pause, then a hesitant response. "Is this a joke?"
  "No joke, ma'am." Kettering was relaxed and affable. "At CBA we're making
  some inquiries and think Mr. Mortell may be able to help us. In his
  absence, perhaps you can."
  "You are Don Kettering. I recognize the voice. How could we help you?" A
  soft laugh. "Unless you have a water leak over there. "
  "Not that I know of, though if I hear about one I'll remember you.
  Actually, it's concerning a hundred-dollar bill which has your husband's
  name written on it."
  "We've done nothing wrong, I hope."
  "Absolutely not, Mrs. Mortell. It simply looks as if the bill passed
  through your husband's hands and I'm trying to discover where it went."
  The woman on the phone said thoughtfully, "Well, we have customers who pay
  cash, including hundred-dollar bills. But we never ask questions."
 384        ARTHUR BAILEY

  "No reason why you should."
  "Later on at the bank, when we pay those big bills in, sometimes a teller
  will write our name on them. I think they're not supposed to, but some do."
  A pause, then, "I once asked why. The teller said there are so many
  counterfeit hundreds, it's a precaution to protect themselves."
  "Aha! Precisely what I thought, and probably how the bill I'm looking at
  got marked." While speaking, Kettering gave Mony a thumbs-up sign. "Do you
  have any objection, Mrs. Mortell, to telling me the name of your bank?"
  "I don't see why not. It's Citibank." She named an uptown branch.
  "Thank you! That's all the information I need."
  "Just a moment, Mr. Kettering. May I ask a question?"
  "Of course."
  "Is something about this going to be on the news? And if so, how can I be
  sure not to miss it?"
  "Easy! Mrs. Mortell, you've been so helpful that I promise, the day it goes
  on, I'll call you personally and let you know."
  As Kettering hung up the phone, Jonathan Mony said, "I thought I might
  learn something. I just did."
  "What was that?"
  "How to make a friend."
  Kettering smiled. He had already decided that the Mortell woman sounded so
  charming, and with a hint of invitation in her voice, that instead of
  phoning he would drop in to see her. He made a note of the address; it was
  uptown, not far away. He might be disappointed, of course. Voices were
  deceptive and she could be older than she sounded and look like the back
  of a bus, though instinct told him otherwise. Something else Jonathan would
  undoubtedly learn in time was that a fringe benefit of being on television
  was frequent romantic opportunities, leading-if one were so inclined-to
  pleasant sexual dalliance.
  He selected another hundred-dollar bill. "Let's try this one," he told Mony
  and motioned to the phone book. "The name is Nicolini Brothers."
  It turned out to be a bakery and pastry store on Third. A man who answered
  was suspicious at first and after a question
            The Evening News     385

 or two seemed inclined to hang up. But Kettering, politely persistent,
 persuaded him otherwise. Eventually the name of a bank was obtained where
 receipts from the store-including large bills-were regularly paid in. It
 was the American-Amazonas Bank at Dag Hammarskj6ld Plaza.
  The names on the next two bills which Kettering chose did not appear in
  the Manhattan phone book.
  The bill after that produced results in the way of a cooperative manager
  of a men's clothing store. The store, he disclosed, had an account at
  Bank Leumi, the branch at Third and Sixtyseventh.
  Another Dame on a bill was untraceable. The next led to a distrustful and
  abusive woman with whom Kettering could make no headway and he gave up.
  The fifth phone call resulted in communication with an
  eighty-six-year-old man. living in an East End Avenue apartment. He was
  too weak to speak on the phone and a nursing attendant did it for him,
  though clearly there was nothing wrong with tile old mail's mind. He
  could be heard whispering cheerfully that his son, who owned several
  night clubs, often dropped in and gave his father bundred-dollar bills,
  which were subsequently paid into a bank account that, the
  eighty-six-yearold declared with a faint chuckle, he was setting aside
  for his old age. And, oh yes, the account was at American-Amazonas Bank,
  Dag Hammarskj6ld Plaza.
  The next call, to a seafood restaurant near Grand Central, resulted in
  Kettering speaking at length with several people, none of whom would take
  the responsibility of telling him anything important. Eventually the
  restaurant owner was located and said impatiently, "What the hell! Sure
  you can know the name of our bank; in return, I hope you'll give us a
  mention on the news. Anyway, the bank's on that damn square I never can
  spell-Dag Hammarskj6ld-and is American-Amazonas,"
  When he hung up, Kettering scooped up the hundred-dollar bills and told
  Mony, "We hit the jackpot. No more calls needed. We have the answer."
  In response to a questioning glance he added, "Look at it this way: Three
  out of five people naming the same bank is too
 386        ARTHUR HAILEY

 much to be coincidence. So those other names, on the bills which went
 through Citibank and Leumi, had to have been put on earlier and the bills
 recirculated, probably through American-Amazonas too.
  "So that's where the money came from which Novack-Rodriguez paid Godoy
  for the caskets."
  "Exactly!" Kettering's voice hardened. "I'll also wager that same bank
  is where those fucking kidnappers drew their cash and had-maybe still
  have-an account."
  Mony prompted, "So next step--Dag Hammarskj6ld Plaza."
  Kettering pushed his chair back from the desk and rose. "Where the bell
  else? Let's go."

                10

 Don Kettering was recognized immediately on entering the American-Amazonas
 Bank and had an instinct early on that his presence was not a total
 surprise.
  When he asked to see the manager, a matronly secretary informed him, "He
  has someone with him now, Mr. Kettering, but I'll interrupt and tell him
  you're here." She glanced at Jonathan MoDy. "I'm sure he won't keep you
  gentlemen long."
  While waiting, Kettering surveyed the bank. It was located on the main
  floor of an elderly brick building near the Plaza's north extremity and,
  viewed from outside, the bank's slate gray entrance was unimposing. The
  interior, however, while small for a New York-bank, was attractive and
  colorful. Instead of a conventional tiled floor, a patterned carpet in
  muted cherry, red and orange shades ran the entire length and width of
  the business area; a small, gold-lettered panel noted it was woven in
  Amazonas, Brazil.
  While furnishings were conventional-a line of tellers' counters on one
  side, three officers' desks on the other-the
            The Evening News     387

 woodwork everywhere was of highest quality. Occupying most of one wall,
 where customers would view it, was a striking mural-a revolutionary scene of
 panting horses with tousled manes carrying uniformed soldiers.
  Kettering was studying the mural when the secretary advised, "Mr. Armando
  is free now. Will you come in, please."
  As they entered a partially glass-walled office which provided a view of
  the operations area outside, the manager came forward with his hand
  extended. A desk plaque identified him as Emiliano W. Armando, Jr.
  "Mr. Kettering, a pleasure to meet you. I see you often and admire much of
  what you say. But I suppose you hear that all the time."
  "Even so, I still appreciate it." The business correspondent introduced
  Mony. At a gesture from Armando, the three sat down, the visitors facing
  a hanging tapestry in bright blues and yellows which continued the bank's
  thematic d6cor.
  Kettering watched the manager, a small figure with a wrinkled face showing
  signs of tiredness, thinning white hair and bushy eyebrows. Armando moved
  with a nervous quickness, his expression worried, the general effect
  reminding Kettering of an aging terrier, uneasy with the changing world
  around him. Instinctively, though, he found himself liking the man-in
  contrast to his recent encounter with Alberto Godoy.
  Leaning back in a swivel chair, the banker sighed. "I rather guessed that
  you or someone like you would be around soon. It's been an unhappy,
  perplexing time for us here, as I'm sure you understand."
  Kettering leaned forward. The manager assumed he knew something that he
  didn't. He acknowledged cautiously, "Yes, that's all too often true."
  "As a matter of interest, how did you get to hear?"
  The business correspondent resisted saying, "Hear what?" and smiled. "In
  TV news we have sources of information, even though at times we can't
  reveal them." He noticed Mony following the conversation with interest
  while keeping his face impassive. Well, that ambitious young man was
  getting a journalism lesson in spades today.
 388        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "I wondered if it was the Post report," Armando said. "It left many
  unanswered questions."
  Kettering wrinkled his forehead. "I may have read that. Do you happen to
  have a copy?"
  "Of course." Armando opened a desk drawer and produced a news clipping
  encased in plastic. The heading read:

UN DIPLOMAT
SLAYS LOVER, SELF
IN JEALOUS RAGE

  Kettering skimmed the report, noting it was from a ten-dayold paper, dated
  the Sunday before last. As he observed references to the two who had
  died-Helga Efferen of AmericanAmazonas Bank and Jos6 Antonio Salaverry, a
  member of the United Nations Peruvian delegation-the cause of the manager's
  distress became clear. What was not clear was whether or not the incident
  had any connection to the matter that had brought CBA News here.
  Kettering passed the report to Mony and returned his attention to Armando,
  prompting, "Unanswered questions, I believe you said."
  The managej nodded. "What the newspaper described is how the police say it
  happened. Personally, I don't believe it."
  Still groping for a possible linkage, Kettering asked, "Would you mind
  telling me why?"
  "The whole business is too complex for that simple explanation.,,
  "Obviously, you knew the woman who was employed here. Did you know the man,
  Salaverry?"
  :'Unfortunately-as it's since turned out-yes."
  'Will you explain that?"
  Armando hesitated before answering. "My inclination is to be frank with
  you, Mr. Kettering, mostly because I think that what we've learned at this
  bank during the past ten days will come out anyway, and I know you to be
  fair in your reporting. However, I have an obligation to the bank. We are
  a substantial and respected establishment in Latin America, as well as
  hav-
              The Evening News     389

 ing this and other toeholds in the United States. Is it possible you could
 wait a day or two, giving me time to consult with senior management outside
 this country?"
  There was a connection! Kettering's instincts again, and he shook his head
  decisively. "It isn't possible to wait. There's a critical situation
  involving safety and lives." It was time, he decided, to do some revealing
  of his own.
  "Mr. Armando, at CBA we have reason to believe your bank was involved in
  some way with the kidnapping two weeks ago of Mrs. Crawford Sloane and two
  other members of the Sloane family. I'm certain you've heard about it. So
  the question arises: Is this other episode-the deaths of Efferen and
  Salaverry-related to the kidnap?"
  If Armando had been troubled before, Kettering's pronouncement had the
  effect of an incremental bolt of lightning. Apparently overwhelmed, he put
  his elbows on his desk and his head in his hands. After several seconds he
  raised his eyes.
  "Yes, it's possible," he said in a whisper. "Now I see it. It's not only
  possible, it's likely." He went on wearily, "A selfish notion, I know, but
  I'm due to retire in just a few months and my thought right now is: Why
  couldn't all this have waited until I had gone?"
  "I understand your feelings." Kettering tried to curb his impatience. "But
  the fact is, you and I are here and we are involved. Obviously we each have
  different information and, equally obviously, we'll both be ahead if we
  exchange it."
  "I agree," Armando conceded. "Where should we begin?"
  "Let me. A large sum of money, at least ten thousand dollars in cash and
  probably a good deal more, is known to have passed through your bank and
  aided the kidnappers."
  The manager nodded gravely. "Putting together your knowledge and mine, it
  is definitely a great deal more money." He stopped. "If I help fill in some
  details, is it essential that you quote me directly?"
  Kettering considered. "Probably not. There's an arrangement called
  'background, not for attribution.' If you wish, we'll talk on that basis."
  "I'd prefer it." Armando paused, collecting his thoughts.
 390         ARTHUR HAILEY

 "Within this bank we have a number of accounts for several delegations to
 the United Nations. I won't go into those, except to say our bank has strong
 ties with certain countries; it's why this office is conveniently close to
 the UN. Various people in UN delegations have authority over those accounts
 and one in particular was controlled by Mr. Salaverry."
  "An account belonging to the Peruvian delegation?"
  "Connected with the Peruvian delegation-yes. Though I'm not sure how many
  people knew about that account, other than Salaverry who had authority to
  sign and use it. You should understand that any UN delegation may have a
  number of accounts, some for special purposes."
  "Okay, but let's concentrate on the important one."
  "Well, for the past several months, substantial sums have been coming into
  that account and going out-all legitimately, with nothing irregular being
  done by the bank, except for one unusual thing."
  :'Which- was?"
  'Miss Efferen, who had considerable responsibilities here as an assistant
  manager, went out of her way to handle the account herself, at the same
  time shielding me and others from direct knowledge of the account's
  existence or what was going on.,,
  "In other words, the source of the money coming in and who it was paid out
  to was kept secret."
  Armando nodded. "That's the way it was."
  "And to whom was it paid out?"
  "In every instance to Jos& Antonio Salaverry, on his signature. There are
  rio other signatures in the account and every payment was in cash."
  "Let's go back a bit," Kettering said. "You've told us you reject the
  police conclusion about the way Efferin and Salaverry died. Why?"
  "When I began to discover things last week and this, I thought that whoever
  was passing money through that account -assuming Salaverry to be an
  intermediary, which I think he was-probably did the killings, arranging
  them to look like murder-suicide. But now you tell me that the kidnappers
  of the
            The Evening News     391

 Sloane family were involved, it seems likely they could have been the ones."
  Though the wizened little manager had been under strain and was near
  retirement, his reasoning powers were still good, Kettering thought. He
  observed that Mony was fidgeting and advised, "If you have questions,
  Jonathan, ask away."
  Mony put aside some notes he had been making and sat forward in his chair.
  "Mr. Armando, if what you say is true, can you make a guess why those two
  people were killed?"
  The manager shrugged. "In my opinion they probably knew too much."
  "For instance-the names of the kidnappers?"
  "Again, from what Mr. Kettering has told me, that would seem a
  probability."
  "And what about the source of the money that the man, Salaverry,
  controlled. Do you know where that money came from?"
  For the first time the manager hesitated. "Since Monday, I've had
  discussions with members of the Peruvian delegation at the UN-they are
  conducting an investigation of their own. What they've discovered so far
  and we've conferred about has been confidential . . ."
  Kettering cut in, "We're not quoting you directly; we already agreed on
  that. So come on-let's have it! Who did the money come from?"
  Armando sighed. "Let me ask you a question, Mr. Kettering. Have you ever
  heard of an organization called Sendero Luminoso or-"
  Mony completed the sentence. "The Shining Path?"
  Kettering's face tightened as he answered grimly, "Yes, I have."
  "We're not certain," the manager said, "but they could be the ones wbo
  shoveled money into that account."

  After leaving Kettering and Mony on the Manhattan side of the Queensboro
  Bridge, Harry Partridge and Minh Van Canh took time out for an early lunch
  at Wolf's Delicatessen at West Fifth-seventh and Sixth. Over their mutual
  choice of gigantic
 392        ARTHUR HAILEY

 hot pastrami sandwiches, Partridge regarded Minh who had seemed thoughtful
 today, unusually preoccupied, though it had not affected his efficient work
 at Godoy's Funeral Home. From across the restaarant table, Minh's squarish
 pockmarked face above his stocky figure looked back impassively between
 mouthfuls of mustard-laden pastrami.
  "Something on your mind, old friend?" Partridge asked.
  "A few things." The answer was typical Van Canh and Partridge knew better
  than to press his question. Minh would respond with more detail in his own
  way, in his own good time.
  Meanwhile Partridge confided to Minh his intention to fly to Colombia,
  perhaps the following day. He added that he wasn't sure whether anyone else
  should travel with him; he would talk with Rita about that. But when there
  was need for a camera crew, either tomorrow or later, he wanted Minh.
  Van Canh considered, weighing a decision. Then he nodded. "Okay, I do it
  for you, Harry, and for Crawf. But it will be the last time, the last
  adventure."
  Partridge was startled. "You mean you're quitting?"
  "I promised my family; we talked last night. My wife wants me at home more.
  Our children need me, my business too. So after we come back, I go."
  "But this is so damn sudden!"
  Van Canh gave one of his rare faint smiles. "Sudden like an order at three
  in the morning to go to Sri Lanka or Gdansk?"
  "I know what you mean, though I'll miss you like hell; things won't be the
  same without you." Partridge shook his head sadly, though the decision did
  not surprise him. As a Vietnamese working for CBA News, Minh had survived
  extraordinary perils in the Vietnam war, near the end managing to get his
  wife and two children airlifted from the country before the fall of Saigon
  and all the while taking superb pictures of history on the run.
  In the years following, the Van Canh family adapted to their new American
  life-the children, like so many Vietnamese immigrants, studying hard and
  earning high grades at school and now college. Partridge knew them well and
  admired, sometimes envied, the family's solidarity. As part of it, they
  lived
            The Evening News     393

 frugally while Minh saved and invested most of his substantial CBA pay, his
 econornies so obvious that among colleagues a rumor now existed that Minh
 was a millionaire.
  The last was possible, Partridge knew, because over the past five years
  Minh had purchased several small camera stores in New York suburbs, linking
  them and significantly enlarging their business with the aid of his wife,
  Thanh.
  It was reasonable, too, that at this point in his life Minh should decide
  he had had enough of travel and prolonged absences, and had taken
  sufficient risks, including joining Harry Partridge on dangerous
  assignments.
  "Speaking of your business, how is it going?" Partridge asked.
  "Very well." Again Minh smiled, adding, "But it has become more than Thanh
  can manage while I am away."
  "I'm pleased for you," Partridge said, "because no one deserves it more.
  And I hope we'll still see each other once in a while."
  "You can count on it, Harry. In our home your name will stay first on our
  list of honored guests."
  On the way back from lunch, after leaving Van Canh, Partridge stopped at
  a sporting goods store to buy some heavy socks, a pair of hiking boots and
  a sturdy flashlight. He suspected he might need all three quite soon. By
  the time he returned to CBA, it was midafternoon.
  In the task force conference room, Rita Abrams waved him over. "A man's
  been trying to reach you. He's called three times since this morning.
  Wouldn't leave his name, but said it's essential he speak to you today. I
  told him sooner or later you'd be back."
  "Thanks. There's something I want to tell you. I've decided I should go to
  Bogot6 . . ."
  Partridge stopped as he and Rita looked up at the sound of hurried
  footsteps approaching the conference room. A moment later Don Kettering
  entered with Jonathan Mony close behind.
  "Harry! Rita!" Kettering said, his voice breathless from hurrying, "I think
  we have the can of worms-wide open!"
  Rita glanced around her, aware of others in the room.
 394        ARIHUR HAILEY

 "Let's go in a private office," she said, and led the way to her own.
  It took twenty minutes for Kettering, aided occasionally by Mony, to
  describe all that they had learned. Kettering produced the New York Post
  report of the Salaverry-Efferen alleged murder-suicide, a copy made by the
  American-Amazonas Bank manager before they left. The two correspondents and
  Rita knew that when this meeting was over, CBA News research would
  routinely obtain all other material on the same subject.
  After Rita read the clipping, she asked Kettering, "Do you think we should
  start investigative work on those two deaths?"
  "Maybe some, though it's incidental now. The real story is the Peru
  connection."
  "I agree," Partridge said, "and Peru has come up before." He remembered his
  conversation two days ago with Manuel Le6n Seminario, owner-editor of the
  Lima-based Escena. While nothing specific had emerged, Seminario had said,
  "In Peru nowadays kidnapping is almost a way of life."
  "Even though we have a Peru involvement," Rita pointed out ' "let's not
  forget that we don't know for sure whether the kidnap victims have been
  taken out of this country."
  "I'm not forgetting," Partridge said. "Don, do you have anything more?"
  Kettering nodded. "Yes. Before I left the bank I had the manager agree to
  an inteiview on camera, maybe later today. He knows he may be sticking his
  neck out with the bank's owners, but he's a good old guy with a sense of
  responsibility and says he'll take his chances. If you like, Harry, I'll
  do that one too."
  "I do like. Anyway, it's your story." Partridge turned to Rita. "Cancel
  what I said about going to Bogotd. Now it's Lima. I want to be there early
  tomorrow."
  :'And how much do we broadcast, when?"
  'Everything we know, and soon. Exactly when, we'll discuss with Les and
  Chuck, but if possible I'd like a clear twentyfour hours in Peru before an
  army of other correspondents gets there, which will happen as soon as we
  go with what we have."
  He continued, "So starting right now, we'll work all night
            The Evening News     395

 putting everything together. Call everyone on the task force in for a
 meeting"- -Partridge glanced at his watch: 3:15 P.m.-"at five o'clock."
 "Yessir!" Rita, enjoying action, smiled.
  At the same moment, the phone on her desk rang. After answering, she
  covered the mouthpiece and told Partridge, "It's the same man-the one
  who's been trying to get you all day.,'
 He took the phone. "This is Harry Partridge."
  "Don't use my name at any point in this conversation. Is that clear?" The
  caller's words sounded muffled, perhaps deliberately, but Partridge
  recognized the voice of his contact, the organized crime lawyer.
 "Yes, it's clear."
 "You know who I am?"
 "I do."
  "I'm calling from a pay phone, so the call's not traceable. And something
  else: If you ever name me as the source of what I'm about to tell you,
  I shall swear vou're a. liar and deny it. That clear too?"
 "It is.,,
  "I've taken big risks to get what I have, and if certain people knew of
  this conversation it could cost me my life. So when this call ends, ray
  debt to you is paid in full. Understood?"
 "Fully understood."
  The other three in the small office were silent, their eyes fixed on
  Partridge as the muffled voice, audible only to him, continued.
  "Some clients I do business with have Latin American connections."
  Connections with the cocaine trade, Partridge thought, but didn't say it.
  "Just as I already told you, they wouldn't touch the kind of thing you've
  been inquiring about, but there are other things they get to hear."
 "I understand that," Partridge said.
  "All right, here it is, and the information is solid, I guarantee it. The
  people you are looking for were flown out of the
 396        ARTHUR HAILEY

 United States last Saturday and are now imprisoned in Peru. Got that?"
  "I have it.," Partridge said. "May I ask one question?"
  "No.,,

  "I need a name," Partridge pleaded. "Who's responsible? Who is holding
  them?"
  "Goodbye."
  "Wait, please wait! All right, I won't ask you to give a name, only do
  this: I'll speak a name and if I'm wrong, give me some kind of signal
  saying no. If I'm right, don't say anything. Will you do that?"
  A pause, then, "Make it fast."
  Partridge took a breath before mouthing, "Sendero Luminoso. "
  At the other end, silence. Then a click as the caller hung up.

 Almost from the beginning, when Jessica regained consciousness in the
 darkened hut at Sion and discovered soon after that she, Nicky and Angus
 were prisoners in Peru, Jessica had accepted that she alone must provide
 their beleaguered trio with leadership and inspiration. Both qualities, she
 realized, were essential to their survival while they waited and hoped for
 eventual rescue. The alternative was profound despair, leading to an
 emotional surrender which could perhaps destroy them all.
  Angus was courageous, but too old and weak to be more than supportive, and
  ultimately even he might need to draw from Jessica's strength. Nicky, as
  always, must be Jessica's first concern.
  Assuming they came through this nightmare safely-and Jessica refused to
  consider any other outcome-it was possible for it to leave forever a mental
  scar on Nicky. Jessica's intention, no matter what ordeals and privations
  lay ahead, was to
             The Evening News     397

 see that it did not. She would teach Nicky, and Angus if necessary, that
 above all they must retain their self-respect and dignity.
  And she knew how. She had taken a training course which some of her
  friends had thought of as a whim. It happened because Crawford, who
  really ought to have taken the course himself, had lacked the time.
  Jessica, feeling someone in the family should, had gone instead.
  Oh, thank you and bless you, Brigadier Wade! I never dreamed, when I
  attended those drills and listened to your lectures, that I would need
  and make use of what you taught me.
  Brigadier Cedric Wade, MC, DCM, had been a British Army sergeant in the
  Korean War and later an officer in the elite British SAS. Now retired and
  living in New York, he conducted small-scale anti-terrorism courses. His
  reputation was such that the U.S. Army sometimes sent him pupils.
  In Korea, in 1951, Sergeant Wade was captured by the North Korean forces
  and for nine and a half months held in solitary confinement in an earthen
  pit below ground level, approximately ten feet square. Above his head
  were securely fastened bars, open to the sun and rain. At no point while
  imprisoned was he ever released from that lonely cell. During his time
  there he had minimal communication with his guards, had nothing to read,
  and could see only the sky above.
  As he quietly described his experience in a lecture, which even now
  Jessica remembered almost word for word, "I knew at the start theY
  intended to break my spirit. I was determined they never would and that
  however bad it got, even if I died in that hole, I would not lose my
  self-respect. "
  He kept it, Brigadier Wade told members of his classes, by hanging on to
  whatever threads of normalcy and order he could. To begin, he assigned
  each corner of his tiny cell a separate function. An unpleasant one came
  first. He had no choice but to urinate and defecate on the cell floor.
  One corner was kept for that purpose only; he saw to it that no other
  portion of the cell was similarly debased. "At first, the odor was
  terrible and sickening. 4fter a while I got used to it because I knew I
  had to. 11
 398        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The opposite comer, as far away from the first as possible, was used for
  eating the meager food passed down to him. A third comer was for sleeping,
  the fourth for sitting to meditate. The center of the cell was used for
  exercises three times daily, including running in place. "I reasoned that
  stayingfit was another way to keep myself a person, and preserve my
  dignity. "
  He received a ration of drinking water daily, but none for ablutions. From
  the drinking water, he always saved a small portion with which he washed.
  "It wasn't easy and I was sometimes tempted to drink it all, but I didn't
  and instead was always clean-something trukv important in the way you feel
  about yourself "
  At the end of nine months, taking advantage of a guard's carelessness,
  Sergeant Wade escaped. Three days later he was recaptured and returned to
  the cell, but within two weeks American forces overran the North Koreans'
  position and released him. He made friendships then which, long afterward,
  resulted in his residence in the United States.
  Something else Brigadier Wade taught Jessica and others was CQB--close
  quarters battle, a form of unarmed combat in which even a small,
  lightweight person with the proper skills could disarm an attacker and
  either blind that person or break an arm, a leg or the neck. Jessica had
  proved an agile and fastlearning pupil.
  Since arriving in Peru as a captive, there had been opportunities to make
  use of her CQB training, but each time Jessica had restrained herself,
  knowing such action would be self-defeating. Instead she kept her ability
  concealed, in reserve for some moment-if one should arise-when it could
  become decisive.
  No such moment had arisen yet at Nueva Esperanza. Nor did the chance of one
  seem probable.
  During those terrible first minutes when Jessica, Nicky and Angus were
  thrust into their separate cages, and Jessica wept on hearing Nicky
  sobbing, there was a period of mental dislocation and misery which even the
  best intentions could not bridge. Jessica, like the others, had succumbed
  to it.
  But not for long.
            The Evening News     399

  Before ten minutes had passed, Jessica called out softly, "Nicky, can you
  hear me?"
  After a pause, a subdued answer came back, "Yes, Mom," The reply was
  followed by movement as Nicky approached the screen between their cells.
  Their eyes had adjusted to the semidarkness and the two could see each
  other, though not touch.
  Jessica asked, "Are you okay?"
  "I think so." Then in a voice which quivered, "I don't like it here."
  "Oh, darling, neither do 1. But until we can do something, we have to
  hold on. Keep reminding yourself that your father and a lot of others are
  searching for us." Jessica hoped her voice sounded reassuring.
  "I hear you, Jessie. You too, Nicky." It was Angus, speaking from the
  cell on the far side of Nicky's, though his voice seemed weak. "Keep
  believing that we'll all get out of here. And we will."
  "Try to get some rest, Angus." Jessica was remembering the beating her
  fattier-in-law had taken from Miguel in the hut where they all returned
  to consciousness, the grueling trek through the jungle and Angus's fall,
  the long journey by boat, and then his struggle here.
  As she spoke, a shuffling of feet could be heard and from the shadows
  beyond the cells a figure moved into view. It was one of the gunmen who
  had accompanied them on the journey, a heavyset mustachioed man they
  would later identify as Ram6n. He carried a Kalashnikov rifle and, aiming
  it at Jessica, ordered, "iSilenciol"
  About to protest, Jessica heard Angus advise softly, "Jessie, don't!" She
  curbed her impulse and they all fell silent. After a pause, the gun was
  lowered and Ram6n returned to a chair in which he had been seated.
  The experience proved to be their first with a succession of armed
  guards, one of whom was always on duty in the hut, the individual
  changing every four hours.
  As they quickly discovered, the strictness of the guards varied. The most
  easygoing was Vicente, the man who had helped Nicky in the truck and, on
  Miguel's orders, had cut the ropes
 400        ARTHUR HAILEY

 binding their wrists. Apart from motioning them to keep their voices
 lowered, Vicente allowed them to talk as much as they wished. Ram6n was the
 strictest, permitting no talking at all, with the other guards somewhere in
 between.
  During the times they talked, Jessica shared with Nicky and Angus
  recollections of her anti-terrorism course, especially the ordeal and
  precepts of Brigadier Wade. Nicky seemed fascinated with the Wade
  story-probably as a relief from the confinement and monotony. It was a
  cruel restriction for an active, highly intelligent eleven-year-old, and
  several times a day Nicky would ask, "What do you think Dad's doing right
  now, Mom, to get us out of here?"
  Jessica always tried answering imaginatively, at one point saying, "Your
  father knows so many people that there isn't anyone he can't call on for
  help. I'm sure he must have spoken with the President, who can get lots of
  people working, looking for us."
  Even if true, it was a piece of vanity which in normal times Jessica would
  not have uttered. But if it bolstered Nicky's hopes, that was all that
  mattered.
  Jessica urged the other two to follow as much of Brigadier Wade's example
  as they could. In the matter of using the makeshift toilet facilities, they
  respected each other's privacy by turning away when asked and not
  commenting about the inevitable odors. On the second day they all began
  exercising, Jessica again taking the lead.
  As the first few days passed, a pattern of living-mainly miserable-took
  shape. Three times daily, a diet of unappetizing, greasy food-principally
  cassava, rice and noodles-was brought to them. The first day, Nicky choked
  on the grease which tasted sour and Jessica came close to vomiting; hunger
  eventually outweighed distaste and they forced it down. Every forty-eight
  hours, more or less, the stinking sanitary pails were removed and emptied
  by an Indian woman. If they were washed at all, it was superficially; when
  returned they smelled almost as bad. Drinking water was handed in to each
  cell in used soft-drink bottles; occasionally there were bowls and other
  water with which to wash. The guards warned the prisoners by
            The Evening News     401

 hand signals that they should not drink the washing water which was a
 muddy brown.
  Nicky's morale, which was the most important to Jessica, while not high
  at least remained stable; he also proved himself to be resilient once the
  initial shock of being there had passed. Jessica, who in New York did
  part-time social work among underprivileged families, had observed that
  in tragic situations, children often coped better than adults. Possibly,
  she thought, it was because children's thinking was less complicated and
  more honest; or perhaps children became mentally adult when the need was
  thrust upon them. In Nicky's case, for whatever reason, he was visibly
  coping.
  He began attempting conversations with the guards. Nicky's Spanish was
  rudimentary, but depending on the patience and good nature of the other
  party, he managed to achieve exchanges and gain information. Vicente was
  the most cooperative.
  From Vicente they learned of the impending departure of "the
  doctor"-obviously the one whom Jessica thought of as Cutface-and who,
  Vicente believed, was "going home to Lima." However, "the nurse" would
  stay on, and this was clearly the sour-faced woman whose name they
  discovered was Socorro.
  They speculated among themselves on why Vicente was different from the
  other guards and apparently kinder. It was Jessica who cautioned Nicky
  and Angus, "It's not so much that he's different. Vicente's still one of
  those who brought us here and are keeping us prison ers--Aon't let's
  forget that. But he's not as mean or thoughtless as the others, so by
  comparison he seems kind."
  There were other facets of the subject that Jessica wanted to talk about,
  but she decided to save them for later. There would be need of fresh
  themes for thought and discussion during what she foresaw as lonely days
  ahead. Meanwhile, she added, "Because he's the way he is, let's make all
  the use of Vicente that we can."
  At Jessica's suggestion, Nicky asked Vicente if the prisoners were to be
  allowed out of the cells at all, to go outside. To this
 402        ARTHUR BAILEY

 question, Vicente shook his head, though it was not clear whether the answer
 was negative or he didn't understand. Jessica, persisting, asked to have a
 message passed to Socorro that the prisoners would like to see her. Nicky
 did his best, but once more a headshake was the only response, making it
 seem doubtful the request would be delivered.
  Nicky's relative success with the language surprised Jessica since his
  Spanish lessons at school had begun only a few months earlier. When she
  mentioned this, Nicky told her that two of his friends at school were Cuban
  immigrants who chattered in Spanish in the playground. "Some of us
  listened, we picked up things . . ." Nicky paused, chuckling. "You won't
  like this, Mom, but they know all the dirty words. They taught us those."
  Angus, who had been listening, asked, "Did you learn any dirty insults,
  too?"
  "Sure did, Gramps."
  "Could you teach me a few? So I can use them on the people here, if I have
  to."
  "I'm not sure Mom would like
  "Go ahead," Jessica said. "I won't mind." Nicky's laughter had been
  wonderful to hear.
  "All right, Gramps. If you really want to badmouth somebody, you could say
  . . ." Nicky crossed his cell and whispered to his grandfather through
  their separating screen.
  They had, Jessica reflected, stumbled on one more way to pass the time.
  And later that day Socorro came, responding to the message.
  She stood in the outer doorway, her slim, lithe body a distinctive
  silhouette, surveying the three cells, her nose wrinkling at the
  all-pervading smell.
  Without waiting, Jessica spoke. "We know you're a nurse, Socorro. It's why
  you cared enough to speak up and have our hands untied, and why you gave us
  chocolate."
  Socorro said crossly, "Not a nurse, a nursing aide." She came closer to the
  cells, her lips set tightly.
  "It make-, no difference, not here anyway," Jessica said.
            The Evening News     403

 "Now that the doctor's going, you'll be the one who knows about medicine."
  "You're trying to be smart; it won't help you. You wanted to see me.
  Why?"
  "Because you've aircady shown you want to keep us alive and well. But
  unless we get out of here, into some fresh air for a while, we'll all be
  desperately ill."
  "You have to stay inside. They don't want you to be seen."
  "Why not! And who are 'they'?"
  "That is not your concern, and you have no right to ask questions."
  Jessica slammed back, "I have a mother's right to care about my son: also
  about my father-in-law who is old and has been treated brutally."
  "He deserved it. He talks too much. So do you."
  Instinct told Jessica that some of Socorro's antagonism was contrived.
  She attempted a compliment. "Your English is excellent. You must have
  lived in America a long time."
  "That is none of your . . ." Socorro stopped and shrugged. "Three years.
  I hated it. It is a filthy, corrupt country."
  Jessica said softly, "I don't think you really believe that. I think you
  were treated well, and now you are having trouble hating us."
  "Think what you want," Socorro snapped as she walked away, then in the
  doorway turned. "I will try to have more air let in here." Her lips
  twitched in the nearest thing to a smile. "It will be healthier for the
  guards."
  Next day two men arrived with tools. They cut open several spaces,
  creating unblocked windows in the walls facing the cells. Immediately,
  the daytime semidarkness was replaced by light so the three captives
  could see each other clearly, and also the guard. As well, there was a
  flow of air through the building, occasionally a breeze, and while foul
  odors were not eliminated, they were greatly reduced.
  It was a victory for Jessica and also, she thought, an indication that
  beneath the surface Socorro was not as hostile as she tried to appear-a
  vulnerability perhaps to be exploited later in some larger way.
 404        ARTHUR HAILEY

  But the light-and-air victory was minor and, as it proved, there were major
  agonies still to be endured. One, unknown to Jessica, was already taking
  shape.

 Six days after the captives and their escorts arrived at Nueva Esperanza,
 Miguel received a series of written orders from Sendero Luminoso, orders
 originating in Ayacucho. They were delivered by a messenger traveling in a
 truck that took two days to cover the five hundred tortuous road miles, a
 journey extending over perilous mountain passes and soggy jungle trails.
 Several items of specialized equipment were also delivered.
  The most important instruction involved making a videotape recording of the
  woman prisoner. A script was supplied and no deviation from its wording
  would be permitted. The project was to be personally supervised by Miguel.
  Another instruction confirmed that Baudelio's duties were at an end. He
  would accompany the messenger in the truck back to Ayacucho, from where he
  would fly to Lima. The truck would return to Nueva Esperanza in a few days'
  time to bring more supplies and collect the completed videotape.
  The news that Baudelio was going home to Lima, even though expected,
  displeased Miguel. For one thing, the ex-doctor knew too much. For another,
  he was certain to resume his alcoholic ways, ard liquor and a loose tongue
  inevitably went together. Thereforc Baudelio at large was a threat not only
  to the security of their small garrison but also-more importantly, as
  Miguel saw it -to his own safety.
  In other cirournstances he would have forced Baudelio to take a walk in the
  jungle from which only Miguel would return. But Sendero Luminoso, while
  ruthless in many ways, could
            The Evening News     405

 become belligerent about an outsider killing one of its own people, for
 whatever reason.
  What Miguel did was send confidentially with the messenger a strongly
  worded note pointing out the dangers of having Baudelio remain in
  circulation. Sendero would quickly make its own decision. Miguel had little
  doubt what that would be.
  One thing pleased him. Among the general instructions he received was one
  to "keep the three hostages in good health until otherwise ordered." The
  reference to "three hostages," which Sendero's high command would have
  learned of through news reports, conveyed approval of Miguel's decision to
  include the old man in the kidnap, something originally not planned.
  He turned his attention to the special equipment brought from Ayacucho for
  the video and sound recording session. It comprised a Sony Camcorder with
  cassettes, a tripod, photoflood kit and a portable 110-volt generator,
  gasoline-powered. None of it presented a problem to Miguel, who had handled
  recording sessions with kidnap victims before.
  He realized, though, that he would need support and certain stem measures
  to ensure obedience from the woman, who he suspected would be difficult. To
  help him he chose Gustavo and Ram6n, both of whom he had observed being
  tough with the prisoners and who were unlikely to be squeamish, whatever
  punishment they were asked to inflict.
  The recording session, Miguel decided, would take place the following
  morning.

  As soon as there was sufficient daylight, Jessica was busy at work.
  Soon after she, Angus and Nicky had recovered consciousness in Peru, all
  three discovered that at some point almost the entire contents of their
  pockets had been removed, including any money they had had. A handbag
  Jessica had been carrying at Larchmont, not surprisingly, had disappeared.
  Among the few things left were some paper clips, a comb of Jessica's, and
  a small notebook in Angus's back pants pocket, which apparently was
  overlooked. Also, in the lining of Nicky's jacket was
 406        ARTHUR HAILEY

 a ballpoint pen which had fallen through a hole in a pocket and had not
 been found.
  At Jessica's urging, the notebook and pen were carefully hidden and used
  only if the guard on duty was one of those known to be more easygoing
  than the martinets like Rarn6n.
  Yesterday Jessica had borrowed the notebook from Angus, and Nicky's
  ballpoint pen. Although the screens between the prisoners' cages
  prevented them from passing anything to each other, Vicente, while on
  guard duty, obligingly collected the objects and handed them to her.
  What Jessica intended was to make drawings of the people she had
  encountered while strong memories of them still remamed. While not an
  accomplished artist, she was a competent amateur and was sure the faces
  in her drawings would be recognizable if eventually she was able to use
  them for identifying those involved in the kidnap and this aftermath.
  The first drawing, which she had begun the preceding day and was still
  working on, was of the tall, balding, authoritative man whom Jessica had
  become aware of as consciousness returned to her in the first darkened
  hut. Although not totally alert at the time, she did remember her
  desperately mouthed plea, "HeIpI . . . please help . . . tell someone .
  . . " A subsequent impression, sharp and clear, was of the man in
  question reacting, looking startled, but afterward doing nothing, as was
  now apparent.
  Who was he? Why was he there? Since he was present, he had to be
  involved. Jessica believed that the man was American. Whether he was or
  wasn't, she hoped that one day her drawing would help track him down.
  When she had finished, Jessica had sketched a recognizable likeness of
  the Learjet pilot, Captain Denis Underhill.
  The sound of footsteps outside caused her to fold the drawing hastily and
  conceal it in her brassiere, the first place she thought of. The notebook
  and pen she thrust beneath the thin mattress of her bed.
  Almost at once, Miguel, Gustavo and Ram6n appeared. All three were
  carrying equipment which Jessica recognized instantly. "Oh, no!" she
  called out to Miguel. "Don't waste your
            The Evening News     407

 time setting that up. We will not help you by making any recording."
  Miguel ignored her. Taking his time, he installed the Camcorder on its
  tripod and arranged the photoflood lights which he plugged into an
  extension cable. The cable ran out of doors where the sound of a generator
  starting up could be heard. Moments later the area in front of the three
  cells was brightly lit, the lights focused on an empty chair which the
  Camcorder faced.
  Still unhurriedly, Miguel walked forward to Jessica's cage. His voice was
  cold and hard. "You will do precisely what I tell you, when I tell you,
  bitch." He held out three handwritten pages. "This is what you will
  say-exactly that and no more, with not one word changed."
  Jessica took the pages, read them quickly, then tore them into pieces which
  she threw outward through the bamboo bars. "I told you I wouldn't do it,
  and I won't."
  Miguel did not rea,;t but looked toward Gustavo who was waiting nearby.
  Miguel nodded. "Get the boy."
  Despite her determination a moment earlier, a shiver of apprehension ran
  through Jessica.
  While she watched, Gustavo opened the padlock securing Nicky's cage. Going
  inside, he seized Nicky by a shoulder and one arm; then, twisting the arm,
  propelled him outside until both were in front of Jessica's cell. Nicky,
  though plainly frightened, said nothing.
  Becoming frantic, and now sweating, Jessica demanded of the men, "What are
  you going to do?"
  No one answered.
  Instead, Ram6n brought from the other side of the building the chair
  usually occupied by the armed guard. Gustavo pushed Nicky into the chair
  where the two men tied him with rope. Before securing his arms, Gustavo
  loosened Nicky's shirt, exposing his small chest. Ram6n, meanwhile, was
  lighting a cigarette.
  Jessica, with a sense of what was coming, cried out to Miguel, "Wait!
  Perhaps I was hasty. Please wait! We can talk!"
  Miguel did not answer. Stooping to the floor, he picked up
 408        ARTHUR HAILEY

 several pieces of the paper which Jessica had thrown. "Those were three
 pages," he said. "Fortunately I thought you might do something foolish so I
 gave you a copy. But three is the figure you have set us, just the same."
  He signaled to Ramon, holding up three f ngers. 'Vu6melo bien . . . tres
  veces. "
  Ram6n inhaled, briiging the tip of the cigarette in his mouth to a glowing
  red. Then deliberately, with a single swift movement, he removed the
  cigarette and pressed the burning end against Nicky's chest. For the
  briefest moment the boy was so surprised that no sound escaped him. Then
  as he felt the burning, searing agony, he screamed.
  Jessica was screaming too-wildly, incoherently, tearfully pleading for the
  torture to cease, assuring Miguel she would do whatever he wanted.
  "Anything! Anything! I don't care! Just tell me what it is! But stop! Oh,
  stop!"
  From the third cell, Angus was banging his hands against the screen of his
  cage and shouting too. His words intermingled with the other din, though
  a few could be heard. "You filthy bastards! Cowards! You're animals, not
  men!"
  Ram6n watched and listened, a slight smile around his lips. Then he
  returned the cigarette to his mouth, drawing his breath in hard several
  times to reignite the glow. When it was again strong and red, he quashed
  the cigarette once more against another part of Nicky's chest. Nicky's
  screams intensified while, for the third time, Ram6n drew on the cigarette
  and repeated the process. By this time, a smell of burning flesh
  accompanied the boy's screams and desperate sobbing.
  Miguel remained coolly impassive, outwardly indifferent to it all.
  After the third bum lie waited until some of the noise had subsided, then
  informed Jessica, "You will sit in front of the camera and speak when I
  signal you. I have written on cards what you are to say. It is the same as
  you read and the cards will be held up. You will follow them exactly. Is
  that understood?"
  "Yes," Jessica said dully, "it's understood."
            The Evening News     409

  Hearing her voice, choked and dry, Miguel told Gustavo, "Give her some
  water."
  Jessica protested, "I don't       It's Nicky who needs atten
 tion-somethi-ag for those bums. Socorro will know . . ."
  "Shut up!" Miguel snarled. "If you give any more trouble, the boy will
  suffer again. He will stay as he is. You will obey!" He glared at Nicky,
  who was whimpering. "You shut up too!" Miguel turned his head. "Ram6n,
  keep the hot poker ready!"
  Ram6n nodded. "S4 jefe. " He inhaled until his cigarette was again a
  glowing red.
  Jessica closed her eyes. Her own obstinacy, she thought, had brought them
  to this. Maybe one day Nicky would forgive her. To protect him now, she
  would concentrate on what had to be done, completing it without a
  mistake. But even then, a sudden thought occurred.
  At home in Larchmont, the night before the kidnap when Jessica and Crawf
  were talking, Crawf had described signals which a hostage making a video
  recording could transmit surreptitiously. The point was that someone back
  home would know of the signals and be able to recognize them. Crawf had
  had the notion that someday he might be kidnapped and make such a
  recording. But now it was Jessica instead-something neither of the-n had
  dreamed of-and she struggled to remember the signals, knowing Crawf would
  see this tape What were they?
  The conversation at Larchmont was coming back . . . her memory had always
  been good . . . Crawf had said, "Licking my lips with my tongue would
  mean, Y am doing this against my will. Do not believe anything I am
  saying.' . . . Scratching or touching my right earlobe-My captors are
  well organized and strongly armed' . . . Left earlobe-Security here is
  sometimes lax. An attack from outside might succeed' " . . . There were
  other signals, Crawf had said, though he hadn't described them. So the
  three-or rather two, since she could only use one of the earlobe
  messages-would have to do.
  Jessica's cell was opened by Gustavo who motioned her to move outside.
  Her impulse when she emerged was to run to Nicky, but
 410        ARTHUR HAILEY

 Miguel's face was glowering and Ram6n, also watching, had lighted a new
 cigarette Jessica stopped, her eyes meeting Nicky's, and she knew he
 understood. Guided by Gustavo, she sat in the chair facing the photofloods
 and Camcorder. Obediently, she sipped water that he gave her.
  The message she would speak was written in large letters on two cards which
  Gustavo now held up. Miguel had moved to the Camcorder and was squinting
  into an eyepiece. He ordered, "When I drop my hand, begin."
  The signal came and Jessica spoke, trying to keep her voice even.
  "We have all been treated well and fairly. Now that the reason we were
  taken has been explained to us, we understand why it was necessary. We also
  have been told how easy it will be for our American friends to ensure our
  safe return home. To have us released
  "Stop!"
  Miguel's face was red, his features working angrily.
  "Bitch! You are reading like you would a laundry listwithout expression,
  trying to be clever, making it sound unbelieving, as if being forced . . ."
  "I am being forced!" It was a flash of spirit which, an instant later,
  Jessica regretted.
  Miguel signaled to Ram6n who applied his hot cigarette to Nicky's chest,
  prompting another scream.
  Jessica, almost out of her mind, was on her feet, pleading. "No! No more!
  I'll do it better! . . . The way you want! . . . I promise!"
  To her relief this time, there was no second bum. Miguel put a fresh
  cassette into the Camcorder and waved Jessica back into the chair. Once
  more Gustavo gave her water. Moments later she began again.
  Steeling herself, she did her best to make the opening phrases sound
  convincing, then continued, "To have us released, you must simply
  follow--quickly and exactly-the instructions which accompany this recording
  . . ."
  Immediately after the word "recording," Jessica moistened her lips with her
  tongue. She knew she was taking a risk, for
            The Evening News     411

 herself and Nicky too, but believed the action would seem natural and pass
 unnoticed. The absence of objection proved her right and she had now
 confirmed to Crawf and others that the words she was speaking were not her
 own. Despite all else that had happened, she felt a thrill of satisfaction
 as she continued reading from the cards Gustavo held.
  " . . . but be sure of this: If you do not obey those instructions, you
  will not see any of us, ever again. We beg of you, do not let that happen
  . . ."
  "at were the instructions-the price of their release which the kidnappers
  were asking? Jessica could only wonder, by now knowing better than to ask.
  Meanwhile, only a little time remained, and how about her other message?
  A choice must be made . . . left earlobe or right . . . Which?
  It was trve the people here were armed and perhaps well organized, but
  security was lax at times, and often at night their guards fell asleep;
  sometimes one or the other could be heard snoring . . . Making her
  decision, Jessica reached up and casually scratched her left earlobe. It
  was done! No one had noticed! She continued with the closing words.
  "We will be waiting, counting on you, desperately hoping you will make the
  right decision and . . ."
  Seconds later, it was over. As Jessica closed her eyes in relief, Miguel
  switched off the floodlights and stepped back, a small smile of
  satisfaction on his face.

  It was an hour before Socorro came, an hour of pain for Nicky and ofanguish
  for Jessica and Angus, who could hear Nicky moaning softly on his bed but
  could not go to him. Jessica had begged the guard on duty-using words and
  gestures-to let her leave her cell and join Nicky in his, and it was clear
  the man, while not speaking English, understood what she was asking. But
  he had shaken his head and insisted, "No se permite. "
  An overpowering sense of guilt seized Jessica. She told Nicky through the
  screen, "Oh, darling, I'm so desperately sorry. If I'd known what they
  would do, I'd have made the recording right away. J never even thought .
  . . 11
 412        ARTHUR BAILEY

  "Don't worry, Mom." Despite his pain, Nicky had tried to reassure her.
  "It wasn't your fault."
  "No one could have believed what those savages did, Jessie," Angus had
  called out from his cell on the far side. "Does it still hurt a lot, old
  chap?"
  "It's pretty bad." Nicky's voice quavered.
  Jessica appealed to the guard again. "Get Socorro! The nurse! You
  understand? Socorro!"
  This time the man took no notice. He was seated, reading what appeared
  to be a comic book, and did not look up.
  Eventually Socorro came, apparently of her own volition.
  "Please help Nicky," Jessica asked. "Your friends burned him."
  "He probably deserved it." Socorro signaled to the guard to open Nicky's
  cell and went in. As she saw the four bums, she made a clucking sound
  with her mouth, then turned away and left the cell, the guard locking it
  behind her.
  Jessica called, "You are coming back?"
  For a moment Socorro looked as if she would make another sharp answer.
  Then she nodded curtly and left. A few minutes later she returned,
  carrying a bowl, a jug of water and a package of what proved to be folded
  cloths and gauze.
  Watching through the screen, Jessica observed Socorro gently bathe the
  bums with water, Nicky wincing as she did, though he did not cry out.
  Socorro blotted the bums dry with a cloth, then placed a gauze pad over
  each, securing the dressings with adhesive tape.
  Jessica spoke warily. "Thank you. You are good at that. May I ask . . .
  "
  "They are second-degree burns and will heal. I will take the dressings
  off in several days."
  "Can you do something for the pain?"
  "This is not a hospital. He must endure it." Socorro turned to Nicky, her
  voice edgy, her face unsmiling. "Lie still today, boy. It will hurt less
  tomorrow."
  Jessica decided on one more appeal. "Please, may I be with him? He's
  eleven years old and I'm his mother. Can't we be together, even if only
  for the next few hours?"
            The Evening News     413

  "I asked Miguel. He said no." Moments later, Socorro was gone.
  There was a silence, then Angus said softly, "I wish there were something
  I could do for you, Nicky. Life isn't fair. You don't deserve any of
  this."
  A pause. Yhen, "Gramps."
  "Yes, old son?"
  "There is something."
  "That I can do? Tell me."
  "Talk about those old songs. And maybe sing one."
  Angus's eyes moistened. It was a request that did not need explaining.
  Anything about songs and music fascinated Nicky, and sometimes on summer
  evenings at the Sloanes' lakeside cottage near Johnstown in upstate New
  York, the grandfather and grandson would talk and listen to songs of
  World War Il which, two generations earlier in other arduous times, had
  sustained Angus and many like him. Nicky never seemed to tire of those
  exchanges and Angus struggled now to remember words and phrases he had
  used beFore.
  "Those of us who were flyboys in the Army Air Forces, Nicky, cherished
  our collections of seventy-eight r.p.m. records . . . Those
  ,ieventy-eights disappeared long ago . . . bet you've never seen any .
  ."
  "I did once. The father of one of my friends had some."
  Angus smiled. As Nicky knew too, an identical dialog had taken place a
  few months earlier.
  "Anyway, we carried those records personally from air base to air base
  and because they were so breakable, no one would trust anyone else with
  transporting them. And every BOQthat's Bachelor Officers Quarters-was
  alive with music of the big bands: Benny Goodman, Tommy Dorsey, Glenn
  Miller. And the singers were young Frank Sinatra, Ray Eberle, Dick
  Haymes. We'd hear their songs and sing them ourselves in the shower."
  "Sing one now, Gramps."
  "My goodness, I'm not sure. My voice is getting old."
  "Try, Angus!" Jessica urged. "If I can, I'll join you."
 414        ARTHUR DAILEY

  He groped in memory. When they had done this before was there a special
  song Nicky liked? He remembered-yes, there was. Steadying his breathing he
  began, though glancing first toward the guard, wondering if he would
  enforce the oppressive silence rule. But the man seemed not to mind them
  talking and was turning pages of his comic book.
  Angus had had a good singing voice once; now, like the rest of him, it was
  wom and quavery. But the words were clear in his mind, their recollection
  sharp . . .

  I'll be seeing you
  In all the old familiar places
  That this heart of mine embraces all day through

  Jessica joined in, her memory finding the lyric from somewhere. A moment
  later, Nicky's young tenor was added.

   In that small cafg,
   The park across the way,
   The children's carousel,
   The chestnut trees, the wishing well.
   I'll be seeing you
   In evry lovely summer's day,
   In evrything that's light and gay,
   I'll always think oj'you that way,
   I'll find you in the morning sun;
   And when the night is new,
   I'll be looking at the moon
   But I'll be seeing youl

  ]For Angus, the years fell away. Jessica's spirits lifted. For Nicky,
  briefly, the anguish from his bums was eased.
            The Evening News     415

                13

 From the moment on Wednesday afternoon when Harry Partridge announced his
 decision to leave for Peru early the following day, the CBA News special
 task force moved feverishly into high gear.
  Partridge's accompanying decision-to open the floodgates of information
  some thirty-six hours after his departure-resulted in meetings and
  consultations during which a priority program covering the next three
  days was structured and approved.
  Immediately ahead, to be written and partially recorded overnight, was
  a report anchored by Partridge which would dominate tbe National Evening
  News on Friday. This would contain all that was known concerning the
  Sloane family kidnapping, including the latest information about Peru and
  Sendero Luniinoso; identification of the terrorist, Ulises Rodriguez
  alias Miguel; the caskets and the undertaker, Alberto Godoy;
  Amazonas-American Bank and the alleged murder-suicide, now suspected to
  have been a double murder, of Jos6 Antonio Salaverry and Helga Efferen.
  However, before any preparations began, Harry Partridge visited Crawford
  Sloane in the anchorman's office on the fourth floor. Partridge still
  felt that Sloane should be among the first to be informed of any new
  development or plan.
  Since the kidnapping thirteen days earlier, Crawford Sloane had continued
  to work, though at times it seemed he was merely filling each day and his
  heart and mind were not immersed in work at all. Today he appeared more
  gaunt than ever, his eyes more tired, the lines on his face even deeper
  than a few days earlier. He was conferring with a woman writer and a male
  producer and looked up as Partridge appeared. "You need to see me,
  Harry?"
 416        ARTHUR HAILEY

  When Partridge nodded, Sloane asked the other two, "Do you mind leaving?
  We'll finish later."
  Sloane waved Partridge to a chair. "You look serious. Is it bad news?"
  "I'm afraid it is. We've established that your family is out of the
  country. They're prisoners in Peru."
  Sloane slumped forward, elbows on his desk; he rubbed a hand across his
  face before responding. "I've been expecting something like this--or
  rather, dreading it. Do you know who has them?"
  "We believe Sendero Luminoso."
  "Oh god! Not those fanatics!"
  "I'm leaving for Lima in the morning, Crawf."
  "I'll go with you!"
  Partridge shook his head. "We both know you can't, that it wouldn't work.
  Besides, the network would never allow it."
  Sloane sighed, but didn't argue. He asked, "Do we have any idea what those
  Sendero jackals want?"
  "Not yet. I'm sure we'll hear." A silence followed, then Partridge said,
  "I've called a task force meeting for five o'clock. I thought you'd like
  to be there. After that, most of us will work all night." He went on to
  describe developments during the day and the plan to broadcast all
  information that they had on Friday.
  "I'll be at the meeting," Sloane acknowledged, "and thanks." Then as
  Partridge rose to leave, "Do you have to go right now?"
  Partridge hesitated. He had a great deal to do and time was short, but he
  sensed a desire on the other's part to talk. He shrugged. "I guess a few
  minutes won't make any difference."
  There was a pause before Sloane said awkwardly, "I'm not sure I know how
  to say this, or even if I should. But at a time like this you get to
  thinking about all kinds of things." Partridge waited, curious, as Sloane
  continued. "Anyway, Harry, I've been wondering what your feelings are about
  Jessica. After all, years ago you two were pretty close."
  So that was it: A secret thought voiced after all this time. Partridge
  chose his words carefully, knowing this moment was
            The Evening News     417

 important. "Yes, I do care about Jessica, in part because we were close-as
 you put il -years ago. But mostly I care because she's your wife and
 you're my friend. As for anything that once existed between Jessica and
 me, it finished the day she married

 YOU."
  "I suppose I'm saying this now because of all that's happened, but there
  were times when I used to wonder about that."
  "I know you did, Crawf, and there were times I wanted to tell you what
  I just did; also that I never had any resentment, either about your
  marrying Jessica or making it big at the anchor desk. No reason why I
  should. But I always had the feeling that if I did say it, you wouldn't
  have believed."
  "You're probably right." Sloane paused, considering. "But if it's of any
  interest, Harry, I believe it now."
  Partridge nodded. Enough had been said, and he needed to go. At the
  doorway he turned. "I'll do my damnedest when I get to Lima, Crawf. I
  truly will."

  On reaching Sloane's office, Partridge had noticed the absence of FBI
  Agent Otis Havelock, whose presence had been so prominent for a week
  after the kidnapping. While pausing outside at the Horseshoe, where he
  informed Chuck Insen of the task force meeting, Partridge asked about the
  FBI man.
  "He's still around a lot," the evening news executive producer said,
  "though I think he's following other leads."
  "Do you know if he's coming back today?"
  "I've no idea."
  Partridge found himself hoping the FBI man would continue whatever he was
  doing for the remainder of the day. If he did, it would be easier to keep
  the knowledge of tonight's activity and Partridge departure tomorrow
  restricted to a few people at CBA only. On Friday, of course, assuming
  word was released in advance that CBA would have new revelations on its
  evening news, the FBI would probably demand to know what was going on and
  would have to be stalled until broadcast time. But Partridge would be in
  Peru by then, and someone else would have that responsibility.
 418        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Just the same, he decided coping with the FBI was one more item to be
  factored into plans for the next two days.

  The five o'clock meeting in the task force conference room was well
  attended. Les Chippingham and Crawford' Sloane were there. Chuck Insen
  stayed for fifteen minutes, then left because the National Evening News
  first feed was looming close, and another Horseshoe producer took his
  place. Partridge was at the head of the long conference table, with Rita
  Abrams beside him. Iris Everly, who had produced a kidnap segment for the
  evening news-though it contained none of that day's new material-a~rived
  several minutes late. Teddy Cooper was present, having spent the day with
  the temporary researchers who were still visiting local newspaper offices
  to review classified advertising-so far with no positive result. Minh Van
  Canh came in, as did producers Norman Jaeger and Karl Owens. A new, face
  at the table was Don Kettering's. Jonathan Mony had stayed on and was
  introduced around. Various support staff members were in attendance.
  Partridge began with a summation of what had happened during the day, his
  intention to leave for Peru early the next morning, and the decision to
  broadcast everything they knew on Friday evening's news.
  Les Chippingham cut in. "I agree with everything you've said, Harry, but
  I think we should go one step further and do a one-hour News Special, also
  on Friday night, covering the whole kidnap sequence at length, including
  the new material."
  Around the table there were murmurs of approval as the news president
  continued. "I remind you we have a prime-time news show already scheduled
  for the nine o'clock slot which we can yank. You guys sound as if you have
  plenty to fill an hour."
  "Plenty and more," Rita Abrams assured him. A short time earlier she had
  screened the silhouette interrogation of Alberto Godoy and viewed Don
  Kettering's interview with the American-Amazonas bank manager, Emiliano
  Armando, which had just come in. She was enthusiastic about both.
  After the screening there had been a discussion between Rita, Partridge and
  Kettering as to whether the funeral direc-
              The Evening News     419

 tor's identity should be protected after all, since during his an-
 tagonistic termination of the interview, Godoy voluntarily brought his
 face into light and camera range. There was a temptation to reveal his
 face on television since protecting Godoy's identity could clearly cause
 the network trouble. Yet because of the original agreement with him, some
 complex ethics were involved.
  In the end, it was decided that since Godoy had not known, technically,
  what he was doing, the original pact must be honored. To make sure the
  decision was safeguarded, Partridge erased on an editing machine the
  portion of tape showing Godoy's face, so it could not be retrieved with
  outtakes later. At this point the erasure was not a legal offense, though
  it would be if done after official inquiries were begun.
  Everyone at the conference room table realized the decision to have a
  one-hour special was relatively easy since the primetime hour in question
  belonged to the News Division anyway; therefore the network's programming
  brass need not be consulted. The show originally scheduled for nine
  o'clock Friday was "Behind the Headlines," a newsmagazine on which Norman
  Jaeger was normally a producer and to which he would undoubtedly return
  when this present work was over. Chippingham. decided privately that he
  need not report immediately to Margot Lloyd-Mason on the change, though
  sometime during Friday he would advise her of what was coming up that
  evening.
  From there, other decisions flowed.
  Partridge announc(-,d that Minh Van Canh and Ken O'Hara, the sound mail
  who had been present at the DallasFort Worth air crash two weeks ago,
  would accompany him to Peru.
  Rita, glancing down the table at Chippingham, added, "Les, the assignment
  desk has chartered a Learjet for Harry and the others, out of Teterboro
  at Six A.M. tomorrow. I need your okay."
  "Are you sure Chippingham, conscious of mounting expenses, had been about
  to continue, ". . . there isn't a commercial flight available, " when he
  caught sight of Crawford
 420         ARTHUR MILEY

 Sloane's steely eyes fixed on him. Changing his mind, the news president
 said tersely, "I approve."
  Rita, it was decided, would remain in New York for overall supervision
  of the Friday evening news report and one-hour special, with Iris doing
  general production on the first, Norm Jaeger and Karl Owens on the
  second. Then, during Friday night, Rita would follow Partridge and the
  others to Lima, with Jaeger taking over in New York as senior producer.
  Partridge, who had discussed the subject earlier with Chippingham,
  disclosed that after his own departure, Don Kettering would head the
  kidnap task force in New York. Temporarily, Kettering's business
  correspondent duties would be handled by an assistant.
  However, Partridge pointed out, neither the National Evening News report
  of Friday nor the one-hour special later-on both of which he would be
  featured-should convey any hint that he had already left for Peru. In
  fact, if it could be made to appear at some point that he was
  broadcasting live-though without actually being deceptive-so much the
  better.
  While other networks and the print press were unlikely to be deceived by
  such tactics, anything that might lessen their own urgency in dispatching
  reporting teams to Peru would be an advantage. From a practical point of
  view, apart from competitiveness, Partridge stood a better chance of
  making investigative headway alone, instead of amid a swarm of other
  reporters.
  Which led to the question of security.
  Everything that would happen through that night and the next two days,
  Les Chippingham declared, must not be discussed, even with others in the
  News Division who were uninvolved, and certainly not with outsiders,
  including families. The criterion for discussion was: Need to know. "And
  that's not a request; it's an order."
  The news president continued, looking in turn at everyone around the
  table. "Let us not do or say anything that could release our news
  prematurely and deprive Harry of the twentyfour hours' lead time he so
  clearly needs. Above all, remember
            The Evening News     421

 lives are at stake"-he glanced toward Crawford Sloane,'very special lives,
 close and important to us all."
  Other security measures were arranged.
  Tomorrow and the next day, while a studio and control room were being
  used to produce the one-hour News Special, security guards would be
  posted outside, admitting only those persons on a list to be compiled by
  Rita. Also, the normal studio output line would be disconnected so that
  no one beyond the studio and control room could view on a monitor what
  was happening inside.
  It was agreed, however, that on Friday morning security would be relaxed
  slightly, to the extent of doing broadcast promotional advertising during
  the day. This would advise viewers that important new information about
  the Sloane kidnapping would be revealed on that evening's National
  Evening News and the one-hour special. Also during the day as a
  professional courtesy, other networks, news wire services and the print
  press would be advised of the same thing, though no details would be
  disclosed.
  At length, Partridge asked, "Is there anything else, or can we get to
  work?"
  "One more detail." It was Rita, a touch of mischief in her voice. "Les,
  I need your approval for another Learjet, this one for Friday night when
  it's my turn for Peru. I'm taking an editor-Bob Watson-and an editpak.
  Also, I'll have the bankroll."
  There was a chuckle among insiders at the table and even a smile from
  Crawford Sloane. Rita was enhancing her chances of traveling by private
  plane, first by taking an editor and editpak, the latter consisting of
  bulky editing equipment, hard to transport otherwise. Second, it was
  considered unwise to travel commercially with large amounts of U.S. cash;
  though Rita hadn't mentioned the amount, it would be fifty thousand
  dollars. Yet hard currency was essential in a country such as Peru where
  local money was close to worthless and dollars would buy almost anything,
  including special privileges which were certain to be needed.
  Chippingharn sighed inwardly. Inconsiderately, he thought,
 422        AR7HUR HAILEY

 and despite their affair which continued to flourish, Rita had put him on
 the spot.
  "Go ahead," he told her. "Book it."

  Only minutes after the meeting ended, Partridge was at a computer
  terminal working on his co-anchor introduction for Friday's National
  Evening News.

   Several startling new developments, he wrote, have come to light
   concerning the kidnapping, fifteen days ago, of the wife, son andfather
   of CBA News anchorman Crawford Sloane. Investigative reporting by CBA has
   led us to believe that the three kidnap victims have been transported to
   Peru where they are being held by the Maoist revolutionary guerrillas
   Sendero Luminoso, or Shining Path, who have terrorized large portions of
   Peru for many years.
   A motive.for the kidnapping is not yet known.
   "at is known is that a United Nations diplomat, using a New York bank
   account, supplied money to the kidnappers, which made the abduction, as
   well as other acts of terrorism, possible.
   Our extensive coverage begins, as so many other crimes begin, with money.
   CB.,I's business correspondent Don Kettering explahm

  It would be, Partridge reflected as he began to revise what he had
  written, the first of many similar introductions he must compose and
  record before leaving Manhattan for Teterboro Airport at 5 A. %4.
 P A R T

 FOUR
 It was still dark, and raining, a few minutes before 6 A.m. Eastern
 daylight time when a Learjet 36A took off from New Jersey's Teterboro
 Airport for Bogoti, Colombia. Aboard were Harry Partridge, Minh Van Canh
 and Ken O'Hara.
  The 36A did not have the range for a nonstop flight to Lima, but they
  would be in Bogotd only long enough to refuel and hoped to reach the
  Peruvian capital by 1:30 P.m. Eastern standard time, which Peru stayed
  on all year round.
  Partridge and the other two had come directly from CBA News headquarters
  to Teterboro in a network car. During the busy night, Partridge managed
  to slip away for a half hour to the Inter-Continental Hotel and pack a
  bag. He hadn't wasted time checking out; someone from the network would
  do that in the morning.
  He had also asked the CBA News assignment desk to arrange some sleeping
  facility in the Lear and was delighted to find it ready. On the right
  side of the passenger cabin, two facing seats had been lowered to become
  a bed, with a mattress, sheets and blankets invitingly in place. It was
  possible for another bed to be made up on the opposite side, but Minh and
  O'Hara would have to work that out between them. In any case, he didn't
  think their night had been as arduous as his own.
  By the time they were in the air and on course, Partridge was asleep. He
  slept soundly for three hours, then awakened to find the cabin in
  semidarkness, someone having thoughtfully
 426        ARTHUR HAILEY

 lowered all the window shades, though bright sunshineenough to see by-was
 visible around their edges. Across the cabin, Minh was curled up and asleep
 in a seat. O'Hara, also sleeping, was in another seat behind.
  Partridge checked his watch: 9 A.m. New York time-still only 8 A.M. in
  Lima. Reaching for a flight plan the co-pilot had brought before takeoff,
  he calculated it would be another two hours before the refueling stop in
  Bogoti. The hum of jet engines was steady but quiet and there was no hint
  of turbulence. A phrase came to Partridge: a silkyjourney. Enjoying the
  luxury, he lay down again and closed his eyes.
  This time sleep did not come. Perhaps the three hours had been enough.
  Perhaps too much had happened in too short a time for him to rest for very
  long. On other occasions in the past he had found he needed little sleep
  during periods of stress and action, and this was such a time, or would be
  very soon. Yes, he was going into action--quite probably and literally into
  battle-and he felt his senses stir agreeably.
  That feeling, he supposed, had always been dormant inside him, though
  V).etnam had awakened it and, afterward, other wars in other places
  satisfied his need. It was what made him, in TV news jargon, a "bang-bang"
  correspondent, a label that used to bother him but didn't anymore.
  Why not? Because there were times when a "bang-bang" like himself was
  needed, just as Balaklava had had soldiery who performed their jobs while

          Cannon to right of them,
          Cannon to left of them,
          Cannon in front of them
          Volleyed and thundered

He smiled, amused by Tennyson's romanticizing, and his own. It hadn't always
 been that way with him. For a while, when he and Gernma were together, he
 consciously avoided wars and danger because life was sweet, too gloriously
 happy to risk a sudden termination. Around that time, within the network, he
 knew word had gone out to the effect: Give Harry some safe
            The Evening News     427

 assignments,- he's earned them. Let the newer reportersfollow the sound
 of gunfire for a while.
  Later, all of that changed, of course. When Gemma was no longer on the
  scene, Partridge had ceased to be protected and was sent again to wars,
  in part because he was so good at them, in part because he made it known
  he didn't care what chances he took. That last was one reason, he
  supposed, why he was on this journey here and now.
  How strange that since this project began he had mentally relived his
  time with Gemma. It was during the air journey from Toronto immediately
  after the kidnap that the memory came back to him of the Pope's Alitalia
  DC-10 and meeting Gemma . . . his own conversation with the Pope and the
  "Slavs-slaves" mix-up which he resolved . . . then Gemma delivering his
  breakfast tray and bringing him a rose.
  One day later on this assignment-or was it two?-more memories at night
  in his hotel . . . of falling in love with Gemma and, while still
  continuing on the papal tour, proposing marriage . . . During a brief
  stopover, their taxi ride to the old city in Panama, and Gemma standing
  beside him while the juez in his ornate office pronounced them man and
  wife.
  Then barely a week ago, while being driven in darkness from Larchmont to
  Maithattan after visiting Crawford Sloane, there had been the remembrance
  of Partridge and Gemma's idyllic, halcyon days in Rome where their love
  had grown; Gemma's shining gift of laughter and joy; the checkbook she
  could never balance; the car she drove like a fiend, arousing his fears
  . . . unfil she surrendered the keys on learning she was pregnant. And
  after that, the news of their move from Rome to London . . .
  Now, here he was, on another air journey and with more quiet moments,
  back again with thoughts of Gemma. This time, unlike the others, he did
  not resist the memories but let them flow.

  Their life in London was unbelievably good
  They took over a pkasant furnished flat in St. John's Wood which
  Partridge's predecessor had vacated, Gemma quickly add-
   428        ARTHUR DAILEY

 ing touches of her own style and color. The rooms were always filled with
 flowers. She hung paintings they had brought from Rome, shopped for china
 and table linens in Kensington and added a striking bronze sculpture by
 a new young artist exhibiting in Cork Street.
  At the CBA News London bureau, Partridge's work went well. Some stories
  he covered were in Britain, others on the Continent-in France, the
  Netherlands, Denmark and Swedenthough he was seldom awayfrom homefor
  long. "en he wasn't working, he and Gemma explored London together,
  delighting in theirJoint discovery of history, splendor, curiosity and
  oddity, often in intriguing, narrow streets, some still as Dickens had
  described them, or around corkscrew, convoluted corners.
  The multitude of mazelike streets perplexed Gemma and she often got lost.
  When Partridge suggested that parts of Rome could be equally difficult,
  she shook her head in disagreement. "They do not say idly 'the Eternal
  City,'Harry caro. In Rome you move onward; it is something you can feel.
  London plays with you like cat and mouse; it turns you sideways and
  backward and you never know. But I adore it; it is like a game. "
  The traffic bewildered Gemma too. Standing with Partridge on the steps
  qf the National Gallery, watching the speeding circie of massed taxis,
  cars and double-deck buses rounding Trafalgar Square, she told him, "It
  is so dangerous, darling. They are all going the wrong way. "
  Fortunately, because she could not adjust mentally to driving on the
  left, Gemma had no desire at all to use their car and, when Partridge was
  not available, she either walked a great deal or traveled by Underground
  or taxi.
  The National was one of many galleries they visited and they savored
  other sights too, both conventional and ofjbeat, from the changing of the
  guard at Buckingham Palace to viewing brickedup windows on old
  buildings--a holdoverfrom the early 1800s when windows were taxed
  tofinance the Napoleonic wars.
  A guide they hiredfi)r a day showed them a statue of Queen Anne who, the
  guide noted, had nineteen pregnancies and was buried in a coffin four
  feet eight inches square. And at New Zealand House, formerly the Carlton
  Hote4 he told them Ho Chi Minh once worked there as a kitchen porter--all
  of it the
            The Evening News     429

 kind of information Gernma loved, and she squirreled it away in an
 ever-growing notebook.
  A favorite Sunday pastime was visiting Speakers'Corner near Marble Arch
  where, as Partridge explained, '~rqphets, loudmouths and lunatics get
  equal time. "
  "What is so different about that, Harry?" Gemma once asked after
  listening. "Some speeches you report seriously on TV are no better. You
  should do a piece about Speakers' Cornerfor your news. "
  Soon after, Partridge passed the suggestion to New York and the Horseshoe
  shot back approval. A report was done and became a much-praised, humorous
  "end piece" on a Friday night.
  Another highlight was visiting Brown's Hotel, founded by Lord Byron's
  butler, and having afternoon tea-the ultimate English experience with
  impeccable service, dainty sandwiches, scones, strawberry jam and clotted
  Devonshire cream. "It is a sacred ritual, mio amore," Gemma declared
  "Like communion, but tastier. "
  In short, whatever they did together became a time of joy. And, all the
  while, Gemma's pregnancy progressed, promising supplemental happiness
  ahead
  It was during her seventh month ofpregnancy that Partridge was sent on
  a one-day assignment to Paris. CBA News's Paris bureau, short-staffed,
  needed someone to cover accusations about an American film which
  portrayed critically---and inaccurately, it was claimed--the French
  Resistance in World War 11, Partridge did the piece, which was sent by
  satellite to New York via London, though he doubted if it was important
  enough to make the National Evening News, and in the end it didn't.
  Then, in the Paris bureau and about to leave to catch his homebound
  flight, he was handed a phone and told, "London wants you. Zeke is on the
  line. "
  Zeke was Ezekiel Thomson, the London bureau chief-huge, tough, dour and
  black also, to those who worked with him, he seemed emotionless. The
  first thing Partridge became aware of as he listened on the phone was
  that Zeke's voice was choked and breaking.
  "Harry, I've never had to do anything like this . . . I don't
 430         ARTHUR HAILEY

 know how ... but I have to tell youhe managed to get
 out.
  Somehow Zeke conveyed the rest.
  Gemma was dead She had begun to cross the street at a busy intersection
  in Knightsbridge and witnesses said she had been looking to the left
  instead of to the right . . . Oh, Gemma! Dearest, wonderful,
  scatterbrained Gemma, who believed that everyone in Britain was driving
  on the wrong side, who had not yet mastered which way to look when a
  pedestrian amid traffic
  A truck, coming from the right, had struck and run over her. Those who
  saw it happen said the truck driver should not be blamed, he didn't have
  a chance . . .
  Their baby---a boy, Partridge discovered later-had also died.

  Partridge returned to London and when what had to be done was done, alone
  in the flat they had shared, he wept. He stayed alone for days, refusing
  to see anyone while his tears poured out -not only for Gemma, but all the
  tears which across the years he had nevershed.
  He wept at lastfor the dead Welsh children at Aberfan whose pathetic
  bodies he had watched broughtfrom that ghastly sea of mud He criedfor the
  starving in Africa where some had died as cameras turned and Partridge,
  dry-eyed, made entries in his notebook He cried for all others in those
  many tragic places he had visited, where he had stood among the bereaved,
  hearing their wailing, chronicling their grief yet was a newsman doing
  hisjob and nothing more.
  Somewhere amid it all he remembered the words of the woman psychiatrist
  who once told him, "You're banking it all, tucking the emotion away
  inside you somewhere. One day everything will overflow, crack open, and
  you'll cry. Oh, how you'll cryll,
  Afterward, as best he could, he hadput his life together. CBA News had
  helped by keeping him busy, not giving him time for introspection, and
  as fast as one tough assignment ended, another took its place. Soon,
  wherever there was conflict or danger in the world, Harry Partridge was
  on the scene. He took risks
            The Evening News     431

 and got away with them until it seemed, to himself and others, that his
 life was charmed. And while it happened, the months, then years slipped
 by.
  Nowadays there were stretches of time when he was able, if not toforget
  Gemma, at least not to think of herfor longish periods. Then there were
  other times-like the two weeks since the Sloane kidnap-when she was
  foremost in his mind
  Either way, since those desperate days after Gemma's death, he had not
  cried again.

  Now, aboard the Leajet and still an hour out of Bogota, sleep was
  returning after all and in Harry Partridge's mind the past and present
  were merging . . . Gemma and Jessica were becoming one . . .
  Gemria-Jessica . . . Jessica-Gemma . . . No matter what the odds against
  him '. he would find her and bring her back Somehow he would save her.
  Sleep came.
  When he awoke again the Lear was on final approach to Bogota.

 The contrasts of Lima, Harry Partridge thought, were as stark and grimly
 apparent as the crises and conflicts, political and economic, that
 bitterly, often savagely, divided all Peru.
  The immense, dry, sprawling capital city was split into several
  segments,, each displaying opulent wealth or squalid poverty, with
  hatreds like poisoned arrows speeding between the two extremes. Unlike
  most other cities he knew, there was seldom any middle ground. Grandiose
  homes surrounded by manicured gardens, all built on Lima's best land,
  adjoined hideous barriadas-slums jam-packed together--on the worst.
  The multitude of "have-not" slum dwellers, many crowded into filthy
  cardboard shacks, was so visibly wretched, the anger
 432        ARTHUR BAILEY

 looking out from sullen eyes so fierce, that during past visits to Peru,
 Partridge had had a sense of revolution in ferment. Now, from what he had
 already learned during his first day here, some form of insurrection
 seemed ready to explode.
  Partridge, Minh Van Canh and Ken O'Hara had landed at Lima's Jorge Chivez
  Airport at 1:40 P.m. On disembarking they were met by Ferniindez Pabur,
  CBA's regular stringer in Peru and-when required, as now-the network's
  fixer.
  He had whisked them through Immigration and Customs ahead of others
  waiting-it seemed likely that at some point money had changed hands-and
  then escorted them to a Ford station wagon, with waiting driver.
  Ferndndez was heavyset, dark, swarthy and energetic, probably about
  thirty-five, with a protruding mouth and prominent white teeth which he
  flashed every few seconds in what he clearly hoped was a dazzling smile.
  In fact, being patently false, it wasn't-but Partridge didn't care. What
  he liked about Ferndndez, whom he had used on other occasions, was that
  the fixer knew instinctively what was needed and got results.
  The first result was a suite for Partridge in the elegant fivestar
  Cesar's Hotel in Miraflores, and good rooms for the other two.
  At the hotel, while Partridge washed and put on a clean shirt, Femdjidez
  phoned ahead at Partridge's request to set up the first appointment. It
  was with an old acquaintance, Sergio Hurtado, news editor and broadcaster
  for Radio Andes network.
  An hour later, the radio man and Partridge were together in a small
  broadcast studio which doubled as an office.
  "Harry my friend, I have only depressing tidings to convey," Sergio was
  saying, responding to a question. "in our country the rule of law has
  disappeared. Democracy is not even a faqade; it is nonexistent. We are
  bankrupt in every sense. Massacres are commonplace, politically inspired.
  There are private death squads of the President's party; people simply
  disappear. I tell you we are nearer to a total bloodbath than ever before
  in the history of Peru. I wish none of this were true. Alas, it is!"
            The Evening News     433

  Although coining from a grotesquely obese body, the deep mellifluous
  voice was compelling and persuasive as ever, Partridge noted. Small
  wonder that Sergio commanded the country's largest audience, since radio
  was still the paramount news medium, more important and influential than
  television. TV viewers were a well-to-do concentration in larger cities
  only.
  Sergio's chair creaked complainingly as he shifted his mountain of flesh.
  His jowls were like outsize sausages. His eyes, which across the years
  had receded as his face grew larger, were now porcine. Nothing was wrong
  with his brain, however, nor his distinguished American education which
  had included Harvard. Sergio appreciated U.S. reporters visiting him, as
  many did, seeking his well-informed opinions.
  After an agreement that their conversation would be off the record until
  the following evening, Partridge described the chronology of the Sloane
  kidnap, then asked, "Do you have any advice for me, Sergio? Is there
  anything you have heard which might be helpful?"
  The broadcaster shook his head. "I have heard nothing, which is not
  surprising. Sendero is good at secrecy, mainly because they kill any of
  their people who talk indiscreetly; staying alive is an incentive not to
  gossip. But I will help you, if I can, by putting out feelers. I have
  information sources in many places."
  "Thank you."
  "As to your news tomorrow night, I will obtain a satellite tape and adapt
  it for myself. Meanwhile we are not short of disaster subjects of our
  own. This country, politically, financially, every other way, is going
  down the tubes."
  "We hear mixed reports about Sendero Lurninoso. Are they really getting
  stronger?"
  "The answer is yes-and not only stronger every day, but controlling more
  and more of the country, which is why the task you have set yourself is
  difficult, some might say impossible. Assuming your kidnapped people are
  here, there are a thousand out-of-the-way places where they may be
  hidden, But I am glad you came to me first because I will give you some
  advice."
 434        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Which is?"
  "Do not seek official help,-that is, from the Peru armed forces or the
  police. In fact, avoid them as allies because they have ceased to be
  trustworthy, if they ever were. When it comes to murder and mayhem, they
  are no better than Sendero and certainly as ruthless."
  "Are there recent examples?"
  "Plenty. I'll point you toward some if you wish."
  Partridge had already begun thinking about reports he would send back for
  the National Evening News. He had previously arranged that after the
  arrival Saturday of Rita Abrams and the editor, Bob Watson, they would
  put together a piece for Monday's broadcast. In it, Partridge hoped to
  have sound bites from Sergio Hurtado and others.
  Now he asked, "You said democracy is nonexistent. Was that rhetoric or
  really true?"
  "Not only true, but to huge numbers of people here the presence or
  absence of democracy makes no difference in their lives. "
  "Pretty strong stuff, Sergio."
  "Only because of your finite viewpoint, Harry. Americans see democracy
  as a remedy for all ills-to be taken three times daily like prescription
  medicine. It works for them. Ergol-it should work for the world. What
  America na1vely forgets is that for democracy to function, most of a
  populace must have something personally that is worth preserving.
  Generally speaking, most Latin Americans don't. Of course, the next
  question is--why?"
  "So I'll buy it. Why?"
  "The areas of the world in deepest trouble, including ours, have two main
  groups of people-the reasonably educated and affluent on the one hand;
  on the other, the ignorant and hopeless poor who are largely
  unemployable. The first group breeds only moderately, the second breeds
  like flies, inexorably growing larger--a human time bomb ready to destroy
  the first." Sergio gestured airily behind him. "Go outside and see it
  happening."
  "And you have a solution?"
            The Evening News     435

  "America could have. Not by distributing arms or money, but by flooding
  the world with birth-control teaching teams, sent out the way Kennedy
  dispatched the Peace Corps. Oh, it would take several generations, but
  curbing population growth could save the world."
  Partridge queried, "Aren't you forgetting something?"
  "If you mean the Catholic church, I remind you I am a Catholic myself.
  I also have many Catholic friends-of stature, educated and with money.
  Strangely, almost all have small families. I have asked myself. Have they
  curbed their sexual passions? Knowing both the men and women, I am sure
  that they have not. Indeed, some speak out frankly, disavowing church
  dogma on birth control-which is man-made dogma, incidentally." He added,
  "With American leadership, voices in opposition to that dogma could grow
  and grow."
  "Speaking of speaking out," Partridge said. "Would you be willing to
  repeat most of what we've talked about on camera?"
  Sergio threw up his hands. "Well, my dear Harry, why not? Perhaps the
  greatest thing America instilled in me was a passion for free speech. I
  have been speaking freely here on radio, though at times I wonder how
  long they will let me go on. Neither the government nor Sendero like what
  I say and both have guns and bullets. But one cannot live forever, so
  yes, Harry, I will do it for you."
  Beneath the gross fat, Partridge acknowledged mentally, was a person of
  principle and courage.

  Before reaching Peru, Partridge had already decided there was only one
  way to go about locating the kidnap victims. That was to act as a TV news
  correspondent would in normal circumstances-meeting known contacts,
  seeking out new ones, searching for news, traveling where he could,
  questioning, questioning, and all the while hoping some fragment of
  information would emerge, providing a clue, a lead to where the captives
  might be held.
  After that, of course, would come the greater problem of how to rescue
  them. But that would have to be faced when the time arrived.
 436        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Unless some lucky, sudden breakthrough happened, Partridge expected the
  process to be demanding, slow and tedious.
  Continuing the TV correspondent routine, he next visited Entel Peru-the
  national telecommunications company with headquarters in downtown Lima.
  Entel would be CBA's base for communication with New York, including
  satellite transmissions. When crews from other U.S. networks arrived, as
  seemed likely in a day or two, they would use the same facilities.
  Victor Velasco was the busy, harried international manager of Entel whom
  Femdndez Pabur had already contacted. In his forties, with graying hair and
  a permanently worried expression, Velasco was clearly preoccupied with
  other problems as he told Partridge, "It has been difficult to find space,
  but we have a booth for your editor, his equipment, and we've run in two
  phone lines. Your people will need security passes . . ."
  Partridge was aware that in places like Peru, where politicians and
  military leaders strutted and got rich, it was lowprofile managers like
  Velasco-conscientious, overworked and underpaid-who really kept the country
  running. Back in his hotel suite, Partridge ~ad put a thousand dollars in
  an envelope which he produced and discreetly handed over.
  "A small thank-you for your trouble, Sefior Velasco. We'll be seeing you
  again before we leave."
  For a moment Velasco looked embarrassed and Partridge wondered if he might
  refuse. Then, glancing in the envelope and seeing U.S. currency, Velasco
  nodded and put it in a pocket.
  "Thank you. And if there's anything else
  "There will be," Partridge said. "That's the only thing I'm sure of. "

  "What took you so long, Harry?" Manuel Le6n Seminario inquired when
  Partridge phoned from the hotel shortly after 5 P.m., having just returned
  from Entel Peru. "I've been expecting you since our little talk."
  "I had a couple ofthings to do in New York." Partridge was reminded of his
  phone conversation ten days earlier with
            The Evening News     437

 the Escena magazine owner-editor; it had been at a time when Peru
 involvement in the Sloane family kidnapping was a possibility, though not
 a certainty as now. He asked, "I was wondering, Manuel, if you've a dinner
 engagement tonight."
  "I have indeed. I shall be dining at La Pizzeria at eight o'clock and my
  guest will be one Harry Partridge."
  It was now 8:15 and they were sipping Pisco sours, the popular Peruvian
  cocktail, piquant and delicious. La Pizzeria was a combination of bistro
  and traditional restaurant where the movers and shakers of Lima were
  often to be seen.
  The magazine chief, slightly built and dapper, with a neatly trimmed
  Vandyke beard, was wearing high-fashion Cartier spectacles and a Brioni
  suit. He had brought with him to the table a slim burgundy leather
  briefcase.
 . Partridge had already reported why he was in Peru. He added, "I've been
 hearing that things around here are pretty bad."
  Seminario sighed. "It is true, they are. But then, our life has always
  been a mixture. We . . . how did Milton put it? . . . 'Can make a heavn
  of hell, a hell of heavn.' Yet we limefios are survivors, something I try
  to reflect with Escena's covers." He reached for the briefcase and opened
  it. "Consider these twoour current edition and the artwork for next week.
  Together, I believe they say something."
  Partridge looked at the printed magazine first. Its cover was a color
  photograph of a tall downtown building's flat roof. The roof contained
  a mess of debris, obviously from an explosion. Central in the picture was
  a dead woman, on her back. She appeared to have been young; her face, not
  badly damaged, might have been beautiful. But her stomach had been blown
  away, with bloody entrails strewn around the body. Despite his
  familiarity with scenes of war, Partridge shuddered.
  "I'll save you reading the story inside, Harry. A business convention was
  in session across the street. Sendero Luminoso, in which the woman was
  an activist, decided to mortar the convention center. Fortunately for the
  convention, but not the woman, the mortar was homemade and exploded
  before she could fire it."
 438 '      ARTHUR HAILEY

  Partridge glanced at the picture, then away. "Sendero is increasingly
  active in Lima, I believe."
  "Exceedingly so. Their people move around freely and this bombing, which
  went wrong, was an exception. Most are successful. Nevertheless, consider
  next week's cover." The editor passed across the artwork.
  It was sex and cheesecake, only a hairbreadth away from pornography. A slim
  young girl, perhaps nineteen and scantily clad in the briefest of
  swimsuits, was leaning against a silken pillow, her head thrown back, blond
  hair tumbled, lips parted, eyes closed, legs partially spread.
  "Life goes on and there are always two sides, even in Peru," the magazine
  man said "Speaking of which, let us order dinner, then I will make
  suggestions, Harry, to ensure that your life goes on too."
  The food was Italian and excellent, the service faultless. Near the end of
  the meal, Seminario leaned back.
  "One thing you must realize is that Sendero Luminoso may already know of
  your presence here; their spies are everywhere. But even if not, they will
  learn of it shortly, probably after your CBA broadcast tomorrow, which will
  be repeated widely. So beginning at once, you must have a bodyguard
  accompany you, particularly if you go out at night."
  Partridge imiled. "That seems to have happened already." FernAndez Pabur
  had insisted on collecting Partridge from the hotel and bringing him here.
  Accompanying them in the Ford station wagon had been a silent, burly man
  who looked like a heavyweight boxer. Judging by a bulge under his jacket,
  he was armed. At their destination, the new man alighted first, Ferndndez
  and Partridge remaining inside the vehicle until signaled to come out.
  Partridge had not asked questions, but Fernandez told him, "We will wait
  while you have dinner." Presumably the retinue was still outside.
 , "Good," Seminario acknowledged. "Your man knows what he is doing. Are you
 carrying a gun yourself?"
  Partridge shook his head.
  "You must. Many of us do. And to quote American Express, 'Don't leave home
  without it.' Another thing: Do not go
            The Evening News     439

 to Ayacucho, a Sendero stronghold. Sendero would learn of your being there
 and you would be committing suicide."
  "At some point I may have to go."
  "You mean if 1, or others trying to help you, learn where your friends
  are being held. In that case you will have to ensure surprise by going
  in fast and getting out the same way. There will be no other way and you
  will have to use a charter airplane. Some pilots here will do that if you
  pay them enough risk money."
  When they had finished talking, most other diners were gone and the
  restaurant was preparing to close.
  Outside, Fern~indez and the bodyguard were waiting.
  In the station wagon returning to Cesar's Hotel, Partridge asked
  Ferndndez, "Can you get me a gun?"
  "Of course. Do you have a preference?"
  Partridge considered. The nature of his work had made him knowledgeable
  about guns and he had learned to use them. "I'd like a nine-millimeter
  Browning; also a silencer."
  "You will have it tomorrow. And about tomorrow-are there plans that I
  should know of?"
  "Just like today, I'll be seeing more people." Partridge added mentally:
  And in days beyond that, still more-until the breakthrough comes.

 Friday was a (lay of action at CBA, New York. Some of the activity had
 been anticipated; a good deal more was unforeseen.
  As usual, the network's broadcasting day began with the 6 A.M. "Sunrise
  Journal." During that program a CBA News promo aired along with
  commercials, as it would throughout the day. The promo was a recorded
  message spoken on camera by Harry Partridge.
 440        ARTHUR BAILEY

   "Tonight ... on CBA National Evening News ...
 an exclusive report oj'startling new developments in the kidnapping of
 the Crawford Sloane family.
   "And at nine P.m. Eastern time, seven central, a one-
hour News Special-Wetwork in Peril: The Sloane Kidnap.' "Be sure not to miss
 tonight's National Evening News
 and one-hour News Special, "

  The choice of Partridge was appropriate since he had regularly anchored
  all the evening kidnap news. It was also opportune since his appearance
  conveyed an unspoken implication that he was in the United States, though
  at 6 A.m. he had already been in Peru for eighteen hours.
  Les Chippingham saw the promo while having a self-serve, on-the-run
  breakfast in his Eighty-second Street apartment. The news president was
  in a hurry, knowing there would be a good deal happening during the day,
  and through the kitchen window he could see his CBA limo and driver
  already waiting outside. The limousine reminded him of Margot Lloyd-Ma-
  son's instruction at their first meeting that he should use taxis
  instead, an order he had ignored. He must not ignore keeping Margot
  informed, however, and as soon as he reached the office would call her
  since she was likely to have seen the promo too.
  The decision was unnecessary. When he entered the car, the driver handed
  him a phone and Margot's voice barked instantly.
  "What is all this about new developments and why haven't I been told?"
  "It happened suddenly. I intended to call you as soon as I got in."
  "John Q. Public has been told. Why should I have to wait?"
  "Margot, the public has not been told; they will be this evening. You,
  on the other hand, are going to be told as soon as I reach my desk, but
  not on this phone because we've no idea who's listening."
  There was a pause during which he could hear heavy breathing. "Do it
  immediately you get in."
  "I will."
            The Evening News     441

  Some fifteen minutes later, connected again with the network president
  and CEO, Chippingham began, "There's quite a lot to tell."
  "Get on with it!"
  "First, from your point of view the outlook is excellent. Some of our
  best people have achieved several exclusive breakthroughs which tonight
  may give CBA the largest news audience in our history, with matching
  ratings. Unfortunately, the news about the Sloane family is less than
  good for Crawf."
  "Where are they?"
  "In Peru. Held by Sendero Luminoso."
  "Peru! Are you absolutely sure?"
  "As I said, we've had some of our most experienced people working on
  this, especially Harry Partridge, and what they've discovered is
  convincing. I've no doubts, and am sure you won't have either." Just the
  same, Margot's startled reaction at the mention of Peru surprised
  Chippingham, making him wonder what was behind it.
  She said sharply, "I'd like to talk to Partridge."
  "I'm afraid that isn't possible. He's already in Peru, and has been since
  yesterday. We expect to have an update from him for Monday's news."
  "Why are you moving so quickly?"
  "This is the news business, Margot. We always work that way." The
  question amazed him. So did a hint of uncertainty, even nervousness, in
  Margot's voice. It prompted him to say, "You seem concerned about Peru.
  Do you mind telling me why?"
  There was silence and obvious hesitation before an answer. "At the moment
  Globanic Industries has a substantial business arrangement there. A great
  deal is at stake and it's essential our alliance with the Peruvian
  Government remains good."
  "May I point out that CBA News doesn't have an alliance with the Peruvian
  Government-good or bad--or with any other government either."
  Margot said impatiently, "CBA is Globanic. Globanic has an alliance with
  Peru; therefore so does CBA. When will you grasp that simple fact?"
 442        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Chippingham wanted to answer, Never! But he knew be couldn't and said
  instead, "We're a news organization first and have to report the news the
  way it is. Also I'll point out, we didn't involve Peru; it's Sendero
  Luminoso which appears to have kidnapped our anchorman's family. In any
  case, as soon as our story breaks tonight, everyone else-networks, print
  press, you name it-will jump on the Peru story too."
  In a comer of his mind Chippingham was asking: Can this conversation really
  be taking place? And should I laugh or weep?
  "Keep me informed," Margot said. "If there's any change, especially about
  Peru, I want to know immediately, not next day."
  Chippingham heard a click as the connection was severed.

  In her elegant office at Stonehenge, Margot Lloyd-Mason pondered.
  Uncharacteristically, she was uncertain about what to do next. Should she
  call Globanic Chairman Theo Elliott, or not? She recalled his cautioning
  words about Peru at the Fordly Cay Club meeting: "I don't want anything to
  damage our stilldelicate relationship . - . and thereby spoil what can
  evolve into the deal of the century. " In the end, she decided that she
  must inform him. Better he should hear the news from her than on some
  newscast.
  When she talked with Elliott, his reaction to her information was
  surprisingly calm. "Well, if that Shining Path rabble did the kidnapping,
  I suppose there's no way it can not be reported. But let's not forget that
  the Peruvian Government is in no way involved because they and the Shining
  Path are deadly enemies. Be sure your news people make that clear."
  "I'll see that they do," Margot said.
  "They can go even further," Theo Elliott continued. "What's happening
  presents an opportunity to make the government there look good, and CBA
  should use it."
  The comment puzzled her. "Use in what way?"
  "Well, clearly the Peruvian Government will do everything possible to find
  the kidnapped Americans and free them-using Peru's milit,~ry and police.
  So while they're doing that, let's ensure they get proper credit, with
  upbeat pictures on our TV
            The Evening News     443

 news. Then I can call President Castafieda, whom I know personally, and
 say, 'Hey, we're making you and your government look great!'-which should
 help us when Globanic Financial and Peru put together the final pieces of
 our debt-to-equity deal."
  Even Margot hesitated. "I'm not sure about going quite that far, Theo."
  "Then be sure! I know what you're thinking-that we're manipulating the
  news. Well, in something as important to us as this, so be it!" The
  Globanic chairman's voice rose. "Jesus Christ! We own the goddamn
  network, don't we? So once in a while let's put that ownership to our
  advantage. At the same time, remind your news people that this is a
  competitive, profitoriented business which pays their fancy salaries and
  they are a part of it, like it or not. If they don't like it, they've a
  clear choice-get outl"
  "I hear you, Theo," Margot said. While listening and making notes, she
  had decided on a modus vivendi which would have three stages.
  First, she would call Chippingham to insist that CBA News indicate
  clearly the Peruvian Government's innocence of involvement in the
  kidnappings, precisely as Theo urged. Second, she herself, as president
  of CBA, would contact the U.S. State Department, asking for immediate
  pressure on Peru to do everything possible-including use of their
  military and policeto rescue the three Sloane family members. Third, the
  cooperation of Peru's government would be reported by CBA headquarters
  for general release. At the same time, CBA News would report positively
  the actual efforts made.
  Almost certainly there would be difficulties and argument, but one thing
  Margot was sure of. Her relationship with Theo Elliott and loyalty to
  Globanic were paramount, overriding everything else.

  Les Chippingham was growing used to Margot's unpredictabilities;
  therefore recei% ing another call from her so soon after their earlier
  conversation did not surprise him. The subject matter, though, made him
  uneasy because this was direct cor-
   444        ARTHUR BAILEY

 porate meddling in news content, which happened occasionally at all
 networks but almost never with a major story. Fortunately, in this
 instance it was possible to be reassuring.
  "All of us know the Peruvian Government was not involved in the
  kidnapping," the news president said. "I'm sure that in our news tonight
  that will be implied and evident."
  "I want more than implication. I want a positive statement."
  Chippingham hesitated, knowing he should take a strong stand about news
  department independence, but aware of his precarious personal dependency
  on Margot. "I'll have to look at scripts," he told her. "Let me call you
  back in fifteen minutes."
  "Don't make it any longer."
  Ten minutes later, Chippingham called. "I think this will please you.
  It's something Harry Partridge wrote before he left for Peru and is in
  our news for tonight: 'The government of Peru and Sendero Luminoso have
  been fierce enemiesfor many years, dedicated to each other's destruction.
  Peru's President Castanida has declared, "Sendero's existence imperils
  Peru. Those criminals are a knife thrust in my side. " ' That last state-
  ment will be a library shot and sound bite by Castafieda."
  Chippingbam's voice reflected relief as well as humor. "I guess Harry
  read your mind, Margot. I hope it satisfies."
  "It will do. Read it again. I want to write it down."
  After the phone call ended, Margot summoned her secretary and dictated
  a memo to Theo Elliott.

 Theo:
   Resulting from our talk, the following will be in the National Evening
   News tonight:
   "The government of Peru and Sendero Luminoso have been fierce enemies
   for many years, dedicated to each other's destruction. Peru's President
   Costafieda has declared, 'Sendero's existence imperils Peru. Those
   criminals are a knife thrust in my side. "'
            The Evening News     445

   Castafieda will be seen and heard making the last statement.
   Thanks for your suggestion and help.
                     Margot Lloyd-Mason

  The memo was to be hand-delivered by special messenger to Globanic
  Industries headquarters.
  Margot's next call was to Washington-the Secretary of State.

  Throughout Friday at CBA, until the National Evening News first feed at
  6:30 P.m., security was strained while outsiders nibbled at its edges,
  attempting to gain access to the exclusive information about which CBA
  News had been titillating viewers and competitors all day. News staff at
  other TV networks, radio stations, news wire services and the print press
  telephoned friends and contacts at CBA, attempting-sometimes directly,
  but mostly by inventive ruses-to learn the gist of what was coming. But
  within CBA, by carefully limiting the number of people with knowledge,
  and temporary isolation ot an inner core of computers, the line was held
  and secrecy preserved.
  Consequently, when the news broke it was immediately copied and repeated
  throughout the world, with CBA News acknowledged as the source. At other
  TV networks, testy inquests would soon be held, asking: How did we miss
  out on this? "at could we have done, but didn't? "y didn't you check
  this, or you follow through on that? Didn't anyone think of calling
  there? How do we guard against this happening again?
  Meanwhile, TV networks hastily revised their second newscast feeds, using
  swiftly supplied videotape displaying "Courtesy CBA," while newspapers
  reshaped the next day's front pages. At the same time, all major media
  alerted their regular Peru contacts while rushing to get their own
  reporters, correspondents and video and sound crews on airplanes to Peru.
  Amid it all, a major new development occurred.
  Don Kettering, now heading the CBA kidnap task force, heard about it
  shortly before 10 P.m., as the one-hour News
 446        ARTHUR HAILEY

 Special was nearing its conclusion. Kettering was still at the anchor desk,
 where he had presided-apparently, so far as viewers were concerned-jointly
 with Harry Partridge, though the Partridge contribution was on tape.
  Norman Jaeger conveyed the news through an anchor desk telephone during a
  commercial break. Jaeger was now senior producer since Rita Abrams had left
  for Teterboro Airport and her Peru flight an hour ago.
  "Don, there's to be a task force session immediately after we've finished."
  "Has something happened, Norm? Something hot?"
  "Hot as hell! I've just had word from Les. Over at Stonehenge they've
  received the kidnappers' demands along with a videotape of Jessica Sloane."

                4

 They ran the videotape of Jessica first.
  It was 10:30 P.m. on Friday. In a private viewing room at CBA News, used
  normally by senior executives, ten people were assembled: Les Chippingham
  and Crawford Sloane; from the task force, Don Kettering, Norm Jaeger, Karl
  Owens and Iris Everly; from CBA corporate headquarters at Stonehenge,
  Margot Lloyd-Mason, an executive vice president, Tom Nortandra, and Irwin
  Bracebridge, president of CBA Broadcast Group; and from the FBI, Special
  Agent Otis Havelock.
  Chance had played a part in the group's assembly. Earlier in the evening,
  about 7:30 P.m., a small plain package was delivered by messenger to the
  main lobby of Stonehenge, addressed: President, CBA Network After a routine
  security check it was sent to Margot Lloyd-Mason's floor where it would
  normally have waited, unopened, until Monday morning. However, Nortandra,
  whose office suite adjoined Margot's, happened to be working late, as were
  his two secretaries. One of
            The Evening News     447

 the secretaries received the package and opened it. Realizing its
 importance, she informed Nortandra who telephoned Margot at the Waldorf
 where she was attending a reception and dinner honoring the President of
 France.
  Margot abandoned the reception and hurried to Stonehenge where she,
  Nortandra and Bracebridge, who had also been called in, screened the
  videotape and read an accompanying document. Immediately they realized
  that the News Division must be informed and arranged a meeting at CBA
  News headquarters;
  A few minutes before the meeting, Bracebridge, a former news president
  himself, took Crawford Sloane aside. "I know this is hard on you, Crawf,
  and I have to warn you there are some sounds on the tape I didn't like
  hearing. So if you'd prefer to watch the video alone first, while the
  rest of us wait outside, we'll do that and understand."
  Crawford Sloane had driven in from Larchmont, along with FBI Agent
  Havelock who had been in the Sloane house when a call about the videotape
  of Jessica was received. Now Sloane shook his head. "Thanks, Irwin. I'll
  see it with the rest of you."
  It was Don Kettering, taking charge, who called to an operator behind the
  small audience, "Okay, let's go!"
  Lights in the viewing room dimmed. Almost at once a large, elevated TV
  screen went to black with scattered pinpoints of light, as was usual when
  running a blank tape without pictures. But sound was on the tape and was
  transmitted suddenly-a series of piercing screams. The group was
  transfixed. Crawford Sloane sat up straight, exclaiming in a broken
  voice, "Oh, Christ! That's Nicky!"
  Then abruptly, as unexpectedly as it had begun, the screaming was cut
  off. A moment later a picture appeared--of Jessica's head and shoulders
  against a plain brown background, obviously a wall. Jessica's face was
  set and serious, and to those in the group who knew her, as most did, she
  appeared wan and under strain. But her voice, when she began, was firm
  and controlled, though an impression persisted that Jessica had willed
  herself to speak normally.
  She began, "We have all been treated well and fairly. Now
 448        ARYHUR HAILEY

 that the reason we were taken has been explained to us, we understand why
 it was necessary. We also have been told how easy it will be for our
 American friends to ensure our safe return home. To have us released, you
 must simply followquickly and exactly-the instructions which accompany
 this recording, but be sure of this . . ."
  At the words "be sure of this," there was a sharp intake of breath by
  Crawford Sloane and a muted exclamation. The tape continued.
  ". . . If you do not obey these instructions, you will not see any of us,
  ever again. We beg of you, do not let that happen . . .
  Again a sudden sound from Crawford Sloane-a whispered exclamation,
  "Therel"
  "We will be waiting, counting on you, desperately hoping you will make
  the right decision and bring us safely home."
  For a second there was a silence in which Jessica's face remained on
  screen, her features expressionless, her eyes apparently unfocused,
  looking straight ahead. Then both sound and picture ended. In the viewing
  room the lights came on.
  "We ran all of the tape earlier," Irwin Bracebridge said. "There's
  nothing else on it. And about the screams at the beginning, we think that
  was patched in from another tape. When you watch closely with the tape
  slowed right down, there's a slight visual break where two tapes were
  edited together."
 Someone asked, "Why would they do that?
  Bracebridge shrugged. "Maybe to wake us up, scare us. If so, it worked,
  didn't it?"
 There was a murmur of agreement.
  Les Chippingharn asked gently, "Are you certain that first sound was
  Nicky, Crawf?"
  Sloane said bleakly, "Positive." Then he added, "Jessica passed two
  signals."
 "What kind of signals?" Chippingham sounded puzzled.
  "The first was licking her lips, which means 'I am doing this against my
  will. Don't believe anything I'm saying.-
 :'Cleverl" Bracebridge said. "Good for Jessica!"
 'Spunky!" someone else added. Others nodded approval.
            The Evening News     449

  Sloane went on, "We talked about signals the night before all this
  happened. I thought that one day I might need them myself . . . Life's
  full of coincidences. I guess Jessica remembered."
  "What else was she able to tell you?" Chippingham asked.
  "No, sir!" The voice of the FBI man, Havelock, cut across the
  conversation. "Whatever else you learned, Mr. Sloane, keep it to yourself
  for the time being. The fewer people who know, the better. We'll talk in
  a little while, please."
  "I'd like to be in on that," Norm Jaeger said. "The task force has done
  pretty well in keeping secrets until now." He added pointedly,
  "Discovering them too."
  The FBI agent glared. "It's my understanding you'll be hearing from our
  director about that-why we weren't kept informed."
  Iris Everly said impatiently, "This is wasting time. Mrs. Sloane said
  something on the tape about instructions. Do we have them?" Though she
  was the youngest person present, Iris was typically unimpressed by the
  influx of network heavy brass. She had worked hardall day on the one-hour
  News Special and was tired, but her fast mind was functioning as usual.
  Margot, still wearing a lavender chiffon Oscar de la Renta gown in which
  she had met the French President, answered, "We have it here." She nodded
  to Nortandra. "I think you'd better read it aloud."
  The executive vice president accepted a half-dozen clipped sheets from
  Margot, perched a pair of half-moon reading glasses on his nose, and
  moved under a light; it heightened his thatch of white hair and a
  brooding face. Nortandra had been a corporate lawyer before becoming a
  CBA executive; his voice had an assured authority, developed from years
  of addressing courtrooms.
  "The title of this docurnent--or perhaps I should say this extraordinary
  diatribe--is: 'The Shining Time Has Come.' I shall now read to you,
  without comment or interjection, exactly what is here.
 450        ARTHUR BAILEY

   "In the histories oj"enlightened revolutions, there have been times when
   the persons leading and inspiring them have chosen to remain silent, to
   endure and suffer, sometimes to die miserably, but always to hope and
   plan. And then there have been other times-moments of glory and victory
   in the uprising of a downtrodden and exploited majority, the overthrow of
   imperialism and tyranny, and the deserved destruction of an encrusted
   capitalist-bourgeois class.
   "For Sendero Luminoso the time of silence, patience and suffering has
   ended. The shining time, along the Shining Path, has come. We are ready
   to advance.
   "In the world at large the se~f-proclaimed superpowers, while jockeying
   with each other and pretending to seek peace, are in reality preparing for
   a catastrophic confrontation between imperialistic and
   socialist-imperialistic forces, both seeking world hegemony. In all of it,
   the already enslaved and abused majority will suffer. If left alone to
   further exploit the world, a few power-mad money masters will, for their
   own advantages, control mankind.
   "But like a volcano ready to explode, revolution is simmering everywhere.
   The Party-Sendero, Luminoso-will lead that revolution. It has the
   knowledge and experience. Its growing influence is extended throughout the
   world.
   "The time has come to make ourselves better known and understood.
   "For many years the lying capitalist-imperialist media, which prints and
   broadcasts only what its money-grubbing masters tell it, has ignored or
   misrepresented the heroic struggle of Sendero Luminoso's people.
   "That will now be changed. It is why capitalist captives have been taken
   and are held as hostages.
   "The American CBA television network is hereby ordered to do the
   following.
   "One. Commencing with the second Monday after receipt of this demand, the
   program CBA National Evening News (both network feeds) will be canceled
   for five weekdays---onefull week
            The Evening News     451

   "Two: In place of the canceled program, another program, to be supplied
   in five tape cassettes delivered to CBA, will be broadcast. The program's
   title is, 'World Revolution: Sendero Luminoso Shows the Way.'
   "Three: During the Sendero Luminoso broadcasts no commercial advertising
   will be allowed
   "Four: Neither CBA nor any other agency will attempt to trace the source
   of the cassettes received, thefirst of which will reach CBA by Thursday
   of next week. Others willfollow day by (lay. A single attempt to find the
   origin of the cassettes will result in immediate execution of one of the
   three prisoners held in Peru. Any further foolish attempts will bring a
   similar result.
   "Five: These orders are not negotiable and will be obeyed exactly.
   "If there is full obedience by CBA network and others with the orders in
   this document, the three prisoners will be releasedfour days after the
   fifth Sendero Luminoso broadcast. But if the orders are not obeyed, the
   prisoners will not be seen again and their bodies will never be recovered.

  "Then there's something else," Nortandra said. "It's on a separate sheet
  of paper.

   "Copies of 'The Shining Time Has Come'and the tape cassette of the woman
   prisoner have been sent to other television networks and the press.

  "That's all of it," Nortandra concluded. "Neither paper is signed, but
  the fact the), accompanied the tape makes them, I suppose, authentic."
  A silence followed the reading. No one, it seemed, wanted to be first to
  speak. Several people glanced at Crawford Sloane who was slumped in his
  chair, his face grimly set. The others shared his sense of hopelessness.
  It was Les Chippingham who said finally, "Well, now we know. All along
  we've wondered what these people wanted. We thought it might be money.
  It's turned out to be much more."
 452        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Much, much more," Bracebridge added. "In money terms of course it's
  incalculable, but obviously that isn't the issue here."
  "As I indicated at the beginning," Nortandra observed, "the whole
  thing-especially all that jargon-doesn't make a lot of sense."
  Norm Jaeger spoke up. "Revolutionaries seldom do make sense, except maybe
  to themselves. But that's no reason not to take them seriously. We
  learned that from Iran." Jaeger glanced at a clock above their heads,
  which showed 10:55. He addressed Chippingham. "Les, do we want to break
  into the network with this? If we're fast, we can do it on the hour and
  use some of Mrs. Sloane on tape. If what we heard about other networks
  getting the tape is true, they may go with the story any time."
  "Then let them," the news president said firmly. "This is a new element
  in which we are players and will not rush. We'll put out a bulletin at
  midnight, which gives us an hour to consider how to handle the news and,
  more important, what our response-if any-will be."
  "There can't be any question about a response," Margot Lloyd-Mason
  declared. "It's perfectly obvious there is no way that we can accept
  those ridiculous terms. We will certainly not put our network evening
  news out of business for one whole week."
  "However, we don't have to say that, at least, not in the beginning,"
  Nortandra pointed out. "We can say something like, the demands are being
  carefully considered and we'll make an announcement later."
  "If you'll pardon my saying so," Jaeger told him, "I doubt if that would
  deceive anyone, least of all Sendero Luminoso. I've spent a lot of
  research hours on those people and whatever else they may be, they aren't
  fools; they're sharp. Also, they've clearly learned about our
  business-for example, that the National Evening News goes out with two
  feeds and our news audience falls off on Saturdays and Sundays, which
  they've indicated they don't want."
  "So what are you suggesting?"
            The Evening News     453

  "That you let the news department handle everything in the way of a
  response. This calls for finesse, not a blunderbuss approach like speaking
  of 'ridiculous terms.' In CBA News we're better equipped, more finely
  tuned, our knowledge of the scene is greater At a signal from Chippingham,
  Jaeger stopped.
  "Basically, I'm agreeing with Norman," the news president said, "but since
  it's my responsibility I think I should say that, yes, the News Division
  ought to handle any response because we are better informed, we know the
  ground, have established contacts, and one of our best correspondents,
  Harry Partridge, is in Peru already and must be consulted."
  "Consult and finesse all you want," Margot snapped; she had flushed at
  Jaeger's reference to her "ridiculous terms" statement. "But what's
  involved here is a corporate matter requiring executive decision."
  "Nol Goddamn, nol" The words were shouted. Heads turned. The speaker was
  Crawford Sloane, no longer seated and dejected, but standing, eyes fiery,
  face flushed. When he spoke, his voice was emotional, at moments choked.
  "Keep corporate out of this! Norman is right about a blunderbuss approach;
  we all just witnessed one, and it's because corporate people don't have
  knowledge or experience to make news judgments. Besides, a corporate
  decision is already made; we heard that too: Can't accept those terms.
  Won't put our news out of business for a week. Did we really need you to
  tell us? Didn't we, in news, already know that-yes, all of us, including
  me? You want it on the record, Mrs. Lloyd-Mason. Well, here it is: I know
  we can't close down CBA News and hand it over to Sendero for one week. God
  help me!-l accept that. You have witnesses."
  Sloane paused, swallowed, and continued. "What we can do, here at news, is
  use our skills, our know-how, play for time. At this moment, time is what
  we need the most. That, and use Harry Partridge who's the one best hope we
  have-my best hope to get my family home."
  Sloane remained standing, but fell silent.
  Before anyone could react, Bracebridge, the long-ago news- 454        ARTHUR HAILEY

 man, now a corporate wheel, tried a conciliatory tone. "A time like this
 is hard on everyone. It's emotional, tension is high, tempers short. Some
 of what's been said tonight could have been put more courteously and
 probably should have been." He turned toward the network president. "Just
 the same, Margot, I believe that what's been presented is a viewpoint
 worth considering, remembering-as Crawf made clear-that your end decision
 is understood and accepted. There seems no question about that."
  Margot, having been offered a face-saving device, hesitated, then
  approved it. "Very well," She informed Chippingham, "On that basis, you
  may decide a temporary, stratagem response."
  "Thank you," the news president acknowledged. "May we clarify one thing?"
  "What is itT9
  "That the ultimate decision we've agreed on will, for the time being,
  remain confidential."
  "I suppose so. But you'd better get the same assurance from the others
  here. In any case, keep me informed."
  Everyone else had been listening intently. Chippingham faced them and
  asked, "May I have that assurance, please?"
  One by one they acknowledged their agreement. While they did, Margot
  walked out.

  When Chippingham returned to his office it was 11:25 P.m. At 11:30 he
  received a printout of a Reuters dispatch originating in Lima, Peru, with
  information about the Sendero Luminoso demands on CBA. Moments later, AP
  in Washington came through with a more detailed report which had "The
  Shining Time Has Come" document in full.
  Within the next fifteen minutes, ABC, NBC and CBS all carried bulletins
  including short segments of the Jessica tape. Fuller details were
  promised on the networks' news programs next day, with more bulletins if
  needed. CNN, with a news broadcast in progress, simply inserted the story
  and was ahead of everyone else. Chippingham stayed with his original
  decision
            The Evening News     455

 not to interrupt present programming, but to release at midnight a carefully
 constructed bulletin, now being prepared.
  At 11:45 he left his office for the Horseshoe, which had been activated for
  the occasion. Norm Jaeger was occupying the executive producer's chair.
  Iris Everly, in an editing room, was working with the tape of Jessica as
  well as others to be used for background. Don Kettering, who would anchor
  the special midnight news, was in makeup, at the same time reading over and
  amending a draft script.
  "We'll just be telling it straight," Jaeger told Chippingham, "with no CBA
  reaction at all. We figure there's plenty of time for that later--whatever
  you want it to be. Incidentally, everyone else including the Times and Post
  has been phoning, asking for reactions. We've told them all we don't have
  any and the subject is simply being considered."
  Chippingharn nodded approval. "Good."
  Jaeger gestured to Karl Owens, seated across the Horseshoe. "He has an
  idea, though, about what a reaction might be."
  ,,I'd like to hear."
  Owens, the workhorse, plodding, junior producer who had already come up
  with a series of idegs and whose painstaking probing had identified the
  terrorist as Ulises Rodriguez, consulted notes on a four-by-six card, his
  standard data bank.
  "We were told in the Sendero Luminoso document that five tape cassettes,
  intended to replace our National Evening News, will be delivered to CBA-the
  first on Thursday of next week, the others following day by day. Unlike the
  tape of Mrs. Sloane which we watched tonight, those tapes will apparently
  be delivered to CBA only."
  "I know all that," Chippingham said.
  Jaeger smiled as Owens continued at his own pace, unperturbed. "What I'm
  suggesting is that we continue to hold off disclosing any CBA reaction
  until Tuesday. Except that on Monday, to keep interest alive, you could say
  there'll be an announcement the following day. Then on Tuesday that an-
  nouncement would be: No further comment until we receive
 456        ARTHUR HAILEY

 the tape promised for Thursday, and after that we'll make our decision
 known."
  "Where does all that get us?"
  "It gets us to Thursday, six days from now. Then let's assume the Sendero
  tape comes in."
  "Okay, so it's in. What then?"
  "We put it in a safe where no one can get to it, and right away go on the
  air-breaking into programming, generally making a big fuss--saying we've
  received the tape, but it's defective. It must have got damaged on the
  way; most of the content got wiped out. We tried to play it, then fix it,
  but we can't. As well as putting all that on TV, we'll feed it to the
  press and wire services, making sure the message is repeated to Peru, so
  it gets back to Sendero Luminoso."
  "I think I follow your reasoning," Chippingham said. "But tell me
  anyway."
  "The Sendero gang won't know whether we're lying or not. What they will
  know-just as we do-is that that kind of thing can happen. So maybe
  they'll give us the benefit of doubt and send another tape, which could
  take several days . . ."
  Chippingham finished the sentence for him. ". . . and would mean we
  couldn't possibly start their broadcasts on the day they specified."
  "Exactly."
  Jaeger added, "I guess Karl would get to this eventually, Les. But what
  he's saying is we'll have gained several extra days' reprieve-if it
  works, and it just might. What do you think?"
  Chippingham said, "I think it's brilliant. It makes me glad we got the
  nitty-gritty shifted back to news."

  Throughout the weekend the news about Sendero Luminoso's demands and the
  videotape of Jessica stayed prominently in the news, with growing
  interest around the world. Calls flooded in to CBA requesting some
  comment from the network, preferably in the form of an official
  statement. By arrangement, all such calls were routed to CBA News. Other
            The Evening News     457

 CDA executives and managers were advised not to respond to questions on
 the subiLct, even off the record.
  At CBA News three secretaries, summoned for special weekend work, handled
  the calls. In every case their response to questions was the same: CBA
  had no comment and, no, it was not possible to say when a comment would
  be made.
  The absence of a CBA reaction, however, did not stop others from
  expressing opinions. A majority view seemed to be, Hold the line! Don't
  give inI
  A surprising number, though, saw no harm in the kidnappers' demands being
  met as a price of the prisoners' release, prompting Norm Jaeger to
  comment in disgust, "Can't those birdbrains grasp the principles
  involved? Don't they see that by creating a precedent we'd invite every
  lunatic group in the world to kidnap television people?"
  On the Sunday TV talk shows "Face the Nation ... .. Meet the Press" and
  "This Week with David Brinkley," the subject was debated and extracts
  from Crawford Sloane's book The Camera and the Truth, read aloud,
  particularly:

  Hostages . . . should be regarded as expendable.
  The only way to deal with terrorists is . . . not striking bar-
  gains or paying ransom, directly or indirectly, everl

  Within CBA, those who had promised Les Chippingham to keep secret the
  ultimate decision not to accept Sendero Luminoso's terms appeared to have
  kept their word. In fact, the only one to break it was Margot Lloyd-Mason
  who, on Sunday, advised Theodore Elliott by telephone of everything that
  had transpired the night before.
  No doubt Margot would have argued she was acting correctly in keeping the
  Globanic chairman informed. Unfortunately, right or wrong, her action
  paved the way for a devastating leak.
 458        ARTHUR HAILEY

                5

 Globanic Industries World Headquarters occupied a mansionstyle office
 complex set in its own private park at Pleasantville, New York, some
 thirty miles outside Manhattan. The intent in choosing that locale had
 been to remove high-level thinking and policy making from the daily
 pressure-cooker atmosphere of Globanic subsidiaries in industrial or
 financial areas. Globanic Financial, for example, which was managing the
 Peru debt-to-equity deal, occupied three floors of One World Trade Center
 in the Wall Street area.
  In reality, however, many ancillary matters affecting Globanic outposts
  spilled into the Pleasantville headquarters. This was why, at 10 A.M. on
  Monday morning, Glen Dawson, a preppy young reporter for the Baltimore
  Star, was waiting to interview Globanic's chief comptroller on the
  subject of palladium. Currently the precious metal was in the news and
  a Globanic company owned mines producing palladium and platinum in Minas
  Gerais, Brazil, where labor riots were threatening supplies.
  Dawson waited outside the comptroller's office in an elegant circular
  lounge which gave access to the suites of two other high Globanic
  officers, one of them the conglomerate's chairman and CEO.
  The reporter, seated in an inconspicuous comer, was still waiting when
  one of the other office doors opened and two figures emerged. One was
  Theodore Elliott whom Dawson recognized instantly from photographs he had
  seen. The face of the other man was familiar, though Dawson couldn't
  place it. The two were continuing a conversation begun inside, the second
  man speaking.
  ". . . been hearing about your CBA. Those threats from the Peru rebels
  put you in a difficult spot."
            The Evening News     459

  The Globanic chairman nodded. "In one way, yes . . . carry on, I'll walk
  you to the elevator . . . We've made a decision, though it hasn't been
  announced. What we're not going to do is let a bunch of crazy Commies
  push us around."
  "So CBA won't cancel their evening news?"
  "Absolutely not! As for running those Shining Path tapes, not a hope in
  hell . . ."
  The voices faded.
  Using a magazine he had been glancing through as cover for a notepad,
  Glen Dawson quickly scribbled the exact words he had heard. His pulse was
  racing. He knew he had exclusive information which countless other
  journalists had been seeking unsuccessfully since Saturday night.
  "Mr. Dawson," a receptionist called over, "Mr. Licata will see you now."
  On his way past her desk, he stopped and smiled. "That other gentleman
  with Mr. Elliott-I'm sure I've met him, but couldn't place his face."
  The receptionist hesitated; he sensed her disapproval and renewed the
  smile. It worked.
  "It was Mr. Alden Rhodes, the Under Secretary of State."
  "Of course! How could I forget?"
  Dawson had seen the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs once
  before-on television, appearing before a House committee. But all that
  mattered at this moment was that he had the name.
  The interview with Globanic's comptroller seemed endless to Dawson,
  though he tried to conclude it as quickly as he could. The subject of
  palladium had not interested him much, anyway; he was an ambitious young
  man who wanted to write on subjects of wide interest, and what he had
  stumbled on seemed a timely ticket to a more exciting future. The
  comptroller, however, was unhurried in describing the history and future
  of palladium. He dismissed the labor unrest in Brazil as temporary and
  unlikely to affect supplies, which was what Dawson had principally come
  to find out. At length, pleading a deadline, the reporter made his
  escape.
  Checking his watch, he decided he had time to drive to the
 460        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Baltimore Star's Manhattan bureau, write both stories there, and still
 make the paper's main afternoon edition. Driving fast, mentally stringing
 words and sentences together as the miles flew by, he headed south on Saw
 Mill River Parkway, then Interstate 87.

  Seated at a computer terminal in the bureau's modest office at
  Rockefeller Plaza, Glen Dawson quickly wrote the palladium story first.
  It was what he had been sent to do and an original obligation was now
  decently fulfilled.
  He then began the more exciting second story. His first report had gone
  to the financial desk and, since he was assigned there, so would the
  second. He was certain, though, it would not remain at financial for very
  long.
  His fingers danced over the keyboard, composing a lead.
  As he did, Dawson wondered about an ethical question which he knew would
  have to be asked and answered soon: Would publication of the information
  he was now writing place the kidnap victims in Peru in greater peril than
  they were already?
  More specifically: Would the Sloane family hostages be harmed by
  revelation of the CBA network decision to reject the demands of Sendero
  Luminoso, a decision which obviously, at this point, was not intended to
  be disclosed?
  Or, on the other hand, was the public entitled to know whatever an
  enterprising reporter like himself was able to find out, no matter how
  the information was obtained?
  Though such questions existed, the plain fact was, Dawson knew, they were
  none of his business or concern. The rules in the matter were precise and
  known to all parties involved.
  A reporter's responsibility was to write any worthwhile story he found.
  If he discovered news, his job was not to suppress or modify it in any
  way, but to write a full and accurate report, then deliver it to the
  organization that employed him.
  At that point what had been written would go to an editor. It was the
  editor, or editors, who must consider ethics.
  In Baltimore, Dawson thought, where his story would be
            The Evening News     461

 printing out at another computer terminal, that was probably happening
 right now.
  As he concluded, he pressed a key to get a local printout for himself
  However, another hand reached out and got the printout first.
  It was the bureau chief, Sandy Sefton, who had just come in. A veteran
  general reporter, Sefton was a few years from retirement and he and
  Dawson were good friends. As he read the printout, the bureau chief
  whistled softly, then looked up.
  "You got a hot one all right. Those words of Elliott's--did you write
  them down right when he said them?"
  "Within seconds." Dawson showed the older man his notes.
  "Good! Have you talked to this other guy, Alden Rhodes?"
  Dawson shook his head.
  "Baltimore will probably want you to." A telephone rang. "Want to bet
  that's Baltimore now?"
  It was. Sefton took the call, listened briefly, then said, "My boy's
  gonna lead the paper tonight, right?" He grinned as he passed the phone
  to Dawson. "It's Frazer."
  J. Allardyce Frazer was executive editor. He wasted no time, his voice
  authoritative. "You haven't spoken to Theodore Elliott directly yet.
  Correct?"
  "Correct, Mr. Frazer."
  "Do it. Tell him what you have and ask if he has a comment. If he denies
  saying it, report that too. If he does deny, try for a confirmation from
  Alden Rhodes. You know the kind of question to ask?"
  "I think so."
  "Let me talk to Sandy."
  The bureau chief took the phone. He winked at Dawson while he listened,
  then said, "I've seen Glen's notes. He wrote Elliott's words on the spot.
  They're clear. No chance of a misunderstanding."
  Replacing the phone, Sefton told Dawson. "You're not home free yet;
  they're debating ethics. You carry on with Elliott. I'll try to locate
  Rhodes; he can't have got back to Washington." Sefton crossed the room
  to use another phone.
  Dawson tapped out Globanic's number. After going
 462        ARTHUR HAILEY

 through a switchboard, a woman's voice answered. The reporter identified
 himself and asked for "Mr. Theodore Elliott."
  "Mr. Elliott is not available now," the voice said pleasantly. "I'm Mrs.
  Kessler. Is there something I can do?"
  "Perhaps." Dawson carefully explained why he had called.
  The voice became cool. "Wait, please."
  Several minutes passed. Dawson was about to hang up and call again when
  the connection came alive. This time the voice was frigid. "Mr. Elliott
  advises that whatever you think you heard was confidential and may not
  be used."
  "I'm a reporter," Dawson said. "If I hear or learn something and it
  wasn't told to me confidentially, I'm entitled to use it."
  ,,Mr. Dawson, I see no point in prolonging this conversation."
  "Just a moment, please. Does Mr. Elliott deny having used the words I
  read to you?"
  "Mr. Elliott has no further comment."
  Dawson wrote down the question and answer, as he had the previous
  exchange.
  "Mrs. Kessler, do you mind telling me your first name?"
  "There is no reason to . . . well, Diana."
  Dawson smiled, guessing Kessler had reasoned that if her name was to
  appear in print, it might as well be in full. About to say thank you, he
  realized the connection had been severed.
  As he replaced the phone, the bureau chief handed him a slip of paper.
  "Rhodes is on his way to La Guardia in a State Department car. Here's the
  number of the car phone."
  Dawson lifted his phone again.
  This time, after a ringing tone, a male voice answered. When Dawson asked
  for "Mr. Alden Rhodes," the response was, "This is he."
  Again the reporter identified himself, aware that Sandy Sefton was
  listening on an extension.
  "Mr. Rhodes, my paper would like to know if you have any comment on Mr.
  Theodore Elliott's statement that CBA network will reject the recent
  Sendero Luminoso, demands and, in
            The Evening News     463

 Mr. Elliott's words, 'we're not going to let a bunch of crazy Commies push
 us around."'
  "Theo Elliott told you thatl"
  "I heard him say it personally, Mr. Rhodes."
  "I thought he wanted it kept confidential." A pause. "Now wait a minute!
  Were you sitting in that hall when we walked through?"
  "Yes, I was."
  "Dawson, you've tricked me and I insist this entire conversation be off the
  record."
  "Mr. Rhodes, before we began talking I identified myself and you did not
  say anything about being off the record."
  "Fuck you, Dawson!"
  "That last was off the record, sir. By then you'd told me."
  The bureau chief, grinning, gave a thumbs-up signal.

  The ethical debate in Baltimore did not last long.
  In any news organization there always existed a predilection toward
  disclosure. However, with some news stories-and this was one-certain
  questions needed to be asked and answered. The executive editor and
  national editor, who would oversee the story, posed them to each other.
  QUESTION: Would publication of CBA's decision imperil the hostages? ANSWER:
  The hostages were in peril already; it was hard to see how publication of
  anything could make much difference. QUESTION: Would anyone be killed
  because of publication? ANSWER: Unlikely because a dead hostage would cease
  to be of value. QUESTION: Since CBA would have to make its decision known
  in a day or two, what difference would it make to be a little early?
  ANSWER: Not much, if any. QUESTION: Since Globanic's Theo Elliott revealed
  the CBA decision casually and others must know of it, was it likely to stay
  secret much longer? ANSWER: Almost certainly no.
  At the end, the executive editor expressed the conclusion of both: "There
  isn't an ethical problem. We go!"
  The story led the Baltimore Star's main afternoon edition with a banner
  headline:
 464        ARTHUR HAILEY

    CBA SAYS NO TO SLOANE KIDNAPPERS

  Glen Dawson's by-line story began:

   CBA will say an emphatic "No" to demands by the Sloane family's
   kidnappers that it cancel its televised National Evening News for a
   week, replacing it with propaganda videotapes supplied by the Peru
   Maoist rebel group Sendero Luminoso.
   Sendero Luminoso, or Shining Path, has admitted holding the kidnap
   victims at a secret location in Peru.
   Theodore Elliott, chairman and chief executive officer of Globanic
   Industries, the parent company of CBA, declared today, "What we're not
   going to do is let a bunch of crazy Commies push us around "
   Speaking at Globanic's headquarters at Pleasantville, New York, he
   added, "As for running those Shining Path tapes, not a hope in hell. "
   A Star reporter was present during the Elliott statement.
   Alden Rhodes, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who was
   with Mr Elliott when the statement was made, declined to comment when
   questioned by the Star, though he did say, "I thought he wanted it kept
   confidential. Pp
   An attempt late thiv morning to reach Mr. Elliott for additional
   injbrmation was unsuccessful
   "Mr. Elliott is not available, "the Star was informed by Mrs. Diana
   Kessler, an assistant to the Globanic chairman. In response to
   questions, Mrs. Kessler insisted, "Mr. Elliott has no further comment.
   "

  There was more-principally background and the history of the kidnap.
  Even before the Baltimore Star hit the streets, the wire services had
  the story, giving credit to the Star Later that evening the Star was
  quoted on all network news broadcasts, including
            The Evening News     465

 CBA's where the premature news was received with near-despair.
  Next morning in Peru, where the kidnap story was already prominent in the
  news, newspapers, as well as radio and TV, featured the disclosure with
  special emphasis on Theodore Elliott's "bunch of crazy Commies"-'~grupo
  de Comunistas locos "--description of Sendero Luminoso.

                6

 "I like Vicente," Nicky said. "He's our friend."
  "I think be is too," Angus called over from his cell. He was lying on the
  thin, soiled mattress of his makeshift bed and filling empty time by
  watching two large beetles on the wall.
  "Then un-think, both of you!" Jessica snapped. "Liking anyone here is
  stupid and na:fve."
  She stopped, wanting to bite her tongue and call the words back. There
  was no need to have spoken sharply.
  "I'm sorry," she said. "I didn't mean that to come out the way it did."
  The trouble was that after fifteen days of close confinement in their
  tiny cages, the strain was telling on them all, wearing their spirits
  down. Jessica had done her best to keep morale, if not high, at least at
  a level above despair. She also made sure they all performed daily
  exercises, which she led. But clearly, despite best intentions, the close
  physical restriction, monotony and loneliness were having an inevitable
  effect.
  Additionally, the greasy, unpalatable food was one more burden that
  sapped their physical resources.
  Compounding those miseries, and despite their efforts to stay washed,
  they were usually dirty, odorous, and frequently sweating, with their
  soiled clothes sticking to them.
  It was all very well, Jessica thought, to remind herself that her
  anti-terrorism course mentor, Brigadier Wade, had suffered
 466        ARTHUR HAILEY

 a good deal more and for a longer period in his below-ground hellhole in
 Korea. But Cedric Wade was an exceptional, committed person serving his
 country in time of war. There was no war here to stiffen the mind or
 sinews. They were merely civilians caught in a petty skirmish . . . for
 what purpose? Jessica still didn't know.
  Just the same, the thought of Brigadier Wade and Nicky's remark about
  liking Vicente, plus Angus's endorsement, reminded her of something she
  had learned from Wade. Now seemed a good time to bring it up.
  Speaking softly while glancing warily at the guard on duty, she asked,
  "Angus and Nicky, have either of you heard of the Stockholm syndrome?"
  "I think so," Angus said. "Not sure, though."
  "Nicky?"
  "No, Mom. What is it?"
  The guard was the one who sometimes brought a comic book; he seemed
  engrossed in one now and indifferent to their talking. Jessica also knew
  he spoke no English.
  "I'll tell you," Jessica said.
  In memory she could hear Brigadier Wade's voice informing the small study
  group of which she had been part, "One thing that happens in almost every
  terrorist hijack or kidnap situation is that after a while at least some
  of the hostages come to like the terrorists. Sometimes hostages go so far
  as to think of the terrorists as their friends and the police or troops
  outside, who are trying to rescue the hostages, as the enemy. That's the
  Stockholm syndrome."
  All of which was true, Jessica confirmed subsequently through additional
  reading. She had also been curious enough to go back and learn how the
  process got its label.
  Now, dipping into memory and using her own words, she described the
  strange story while Nicky and Angus listened.

  It happened in Stockholm, Sweden, on August 23, 1973.
  That morning, at Norrmalmstorg, a central city square, an escaped
  convict. Jan-Erik Olsson, age thirty-two, entered Sveriges Kreditbanken,
  one of Stockholm's larger banks. From be-
              The Evening News     467

 neath a folded jacket Olsson produced a submachine gun which hefired into
 the ceiling, creating panic amid a shower of concrete and glass.
  The ordeal that followed lasted six days.
  In the course of it no one participating had any notion that for years
  and probably centuries to come, an outcropping of the experience they
  were sharing would becomejamous as the Stockholm syndrome--a medical and
  scientific phrase destined to be as familiar worldwide to students and
  practitioners as Cesarean section, anorexia, penis envy or Alzheimer's
  disease.
  Three women and a man, all bank employees, were taken hostage by Olsson
  and an accomplice, Clark Olofsson, age twenty-six. The hostages were
  Birgitta Lundblad, thirty-one, a pretty blond; Kristin Ehnmark,
  twenty-three, spirited and blackhaired; Elisabeth Oldgren, twenty-one,
  small, fair and gentle; and Sven Sdfstrdm, twenty-five, a tall, slender
  bachelor. For most of the next six days this sextet was confined to a
  safedeposit vault from where the criminals presented their demands by
  telephone-jbr three million kronor in cash ($710,000), two pistols and
  a getaway car.
  During the siege, the hostages suffered. They wereforced to stand with
  ropes around their necks so thatfalling would strangle them. From time
  to time, as a machine gun was thrust into their ribs, they expected
  death. Forfifty hours they were without food Plastic wastebaskets became
  their only toilets. Within the vault, claustrophobia andjear were
  all-pervading.
  Yet all the while a strange closeness between hostages and captors grew.
  There was a moment when Birgitta could have walked away but didn't.
  Kristin managed to give information to the police, then acknowledged,
  "Ifelt like a traitor." The male hostage, Sven, described his captors as
  "kind " Elisabeth agreed.
  Stockholm's police, waging a war of attrition to free the prisoners,
  encountered hostilityfrom them. Kristin said by telephone that she
  trusted the robbers, adding "I want you to let us go away with them . .
  . They have been very nice. " Of Olsson, she declared, "He is protecting
  us from the police." "en told "The police will not harm you, " Kristin
  replied, "I do not believe it "
  It was revealed later that Kristin held hands with the younger
 468        ARTHUR BAILEY

 criminal, 01o/sson. She told an investigator, "Clark gave me tenderness.
 " And after the hostages' release, while being taken by stretcher to an
 ambulance, Kristin called to 01ofsson, "Clark, I'll see you again. "
  Lab technicians searching the vault found traces of semen. Following a
  week of questioning, one of the women, while denying having had sex, said
  that during one night while others were asleep she helped Olsson to
  masturbate. Investigators, while skeptical about the no-sex statement,
  dropped the matter.
  During questioning by doctors the freed hostages referred to police as
  "the enemy" and believed it was the criminals to whom they owed their
  lives. Elisabeth accused a doctor of attempting to "brainwash away" her
  regardfor Olsson and 016fsson.
  In 1974, nearly a year after the bank drama, Birgitta visited 01o/sson
  in jail, conversing with him for half an hour.
  Investigating doctors eventually declared the hostages' reaction typical
  of anyone caught in "survival situations. " They quoted Anna Freud who
  described such reactions as "identification with the aggressor. "But it
  took the Swedish bank drama to create a permanent, memorable name.- the
  Stockholm syndrome.

  "Hey, that's neat, Mom," Nicky called out.
  "I never knew all that, Jessie," Angus added.
  Nicky asked, "Got any more good stuff?"
  Jessica was pleased. "A little."
  Once more she drew on her memories of the Britisher, Brigadier Wade. "I
  have two pieces of advice for you," he once told his anti-terrorist
  class. "First, if you're a captive and a hostage: Beware the Stockholm
  syndromel Second, when dealing with terrorists keep in mind that 'Love
  your enemies' is vapid nonsense. At the other extreme, don't squander
  time and effort hating terrorists, because hate is a wasteful, draining
  emotion. Just never for a moment trust them, or like them, and never stop
  thinking of them as the enemy."
  Jessica repeated the Wade advice for Nicky and Angus. She went on to
  describe airplane hijackings where people who had been seized and abused
  developed friendly feelings for their attackers. This proved true with
  the infamous TWA flight 847
            The Evening News     469

 in 1985 when some passengers expressed sympathy for the Shiite hijackers and
 expounded their captors' propagandist views.
  More recently, Jessica explained, a released hostage from the Middle East-a
  pathetic figure, clearly another victim of the Stockholm syndrome-even
  delivered a message from his jailers to the Pope and the U.S. President,
  gaining much publicity while he did. The nature of the message was not
  disclosed, though unofficially it was called banal and pointless.
  Of even greater concern to those who understood the Stockholm syndrome was
  the case of kidnap victim Patricia Hearst. Unfortunately for Hearst, who
  was arrested in 1975 and tried the following year for alleged crimes while
  dominated by her brutish captors, the events in Stockholm were not
  sufficiently known to allow either sympathy or justice. Speaking at one of
  the Wade anti-terrorist sessions, an American lawyer declared, "In legal
  and intellectual values the Patty Hearst trial must be equated with the
  Salem witchcraft trials of 1692." He added, "Knowing what we do now, and
  remembering that the wrong done was recognized by President Carter who
  commuted her prison sentence, it will be a dark day of shame for our
  country if Patricia Hearst is allowed to die unpardoned."
  "So what you're saying, Jessie," Angus said, "is not to be taken in by
  Vicente's seeming easy. He's still an enemy."
  "If he weren't," Jessica pointed out, "we could just walk out of here while
  he's guarding us."
  64 Which we know we can't." Angus directed his voice to the middle cell.
  "Have you got that, Nicky? Your mom's right and you and I were wrong."
  Nicky nodded glumly, without speaking. One of the sadnesses of this
  incarceration, Jessica thought, was that Nicky was being faced---earlier
  than would have happened normally -with some harsh realities of human
  infamy.

  As always in Peru, the developing news concerning the Sloane family
  kidnapping traveled over the longest distances and to the country's
  remotest places by radio.
  The first news of the linkage of Peru and Sendero Luminoso to the
  kidnapping was reported on Saturday, the day following
 4 70       ARTHUR HAILEY

 the CBA National Evening News broadcast in which the exclusive material
 assembled by the network's special task force was revealed. While the
 kidnapping had been reported earlier by Per-u's media in a minor way, the
 local involvement made it instant major news. flere, too, radio was the
 means of widest, dissemination.
  Similarly, on the Tuesday morning following Monday's news breakthrough by
  the Baltimore Star, radio delivered to the Andes mountain city of Ayacucho
  and the Selva hamlet Nueva Esperanza the first report of Theodore Elliott's
  rejection of the kidnappers' demands and his low opinion of Sendero
  Luminoso.
  In Ayacucho the radio report was heard by Sendero leaders and in Nueva
  Esperanza by the terrorist Ulises Rodriguez, alias Miguel' *
  Soon after, a telephone conversation took place between Miguel and a
  Sendero leader in Ayacucho, though neither disclosed his name while
  talking. Both were aware that the telephone connection was poor by modern
  standards and that the line passed through other locations where anyone
  could be listening, including the army or police. Thus they talked in
  generalities and veiled references, at which many in Peru were practiced,
  though to both men the meaning was understood.
  This was: Something must be done immediately to prove to the American TV
  network, CBA, that they were dealing with neither fools nor weaklings.
  Killing one of the hostages and leaving the body to be found in Lima was
  a possibility. Miguel, while agreeing that would be effective, suggested
  for the moment keeping all three hostages alive, preserving them like capi-
  tal. Instead of killing, he advised another course of action
  which-remembering something he had learned while at Hackensack-he believed
  would be devastating psychologically to those at the other end of the
  equation in New York.
  This was promptly agreed to and, since physical transportation would be
  needed, a car or truck, whichever proved available, would leave Ayacucho
  immediately for Nueva Esperanza.
  In Nueva Esperanza, Miguel began his preparations by sending for Socorro.
            The Evening News     471

  Jessica, Nicky and Angus looked up as a small procession filed into the
  area immediately outside their cells. It consisted of Miguel, Socorro,
  Gustavo, Ram6n and one of the other men who served as guards. From their
  sense of purpose it was evident something was about to happen and Jessica
  and the others waited apprehensively to discover what.
  One thing Jessica was sure of: Whatever was expected of her, she would
  cooperate. It was now six days since she had made the videotape recording
  in course of which, because of her initial defiance, Nicky had been
  tortured by agonizing bums. Since then, Socorro had come in daily to
  inspect the bums, which were sufficiently healed so that Nicky was no
  longer in pain. Jessica, who still felt guilty about Nicky's suffering,
  was determined he would not be hurt again.
  Consequently, when Nicky's cell was opened and the -terrorists crowded
  in with Nicky, ignoring Jessica and Angus, Jessica cried out anxiously,
  "What are you doing? I beg of you don't hurt him. He's suffered enough.
  Do what you have to do to me!"
  It was Socorro who swung to face Jessica and shouted through the screen
  between them, "Shut up! There's no way you can stop what's going to
  happen."
  Jessica screamed frantically, "What is happening?" Miguel, she saw, had
  brought a small wooden table into Nicky's cell while Gustavo and the
  fourth man had seized Nicky and were holding him so he was unable to
  move. Jessica cried again, "Oh, this isn't fair! For god's sake let him
  go!"
  Ignoring Jessica, Socorro said to Nicky, "You're going to have two of
  your fingers cut off."
  At the word "fingers," Nicky, already frantic, screamed and struggled,
  but to no avail.
  Socorro continued, "These men will do it, and there's nothing you can do
  to change that. But it will hurt more if you struggle, so keep still!"
  Ignoring the warning, mouthing incoherent words, his eyes moving wildly,
  Nicky fought even more desperately to free himself, to somehow pull back
  his hands, but did not succeed.
 472        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Jessica emitted a piercing wail. "Oh, nol Not fingers! Don't you
  understand? He plays the piano! It's his life . . ."
  "I know." This time it was Miguel who turned, a small smile on his face.
  "I heard your husband say so on television; he was answering a question.
  When he receives those fingers he'll wish he hadn't."
  On the other side of Nicky's cell, Angus was banging his screen and
  shouting too. He held up his hands. "Take mine! What difference will it
  make? Why spoil the rest of the boy's life?"
  Miguel, this time his face working angrily, flared back. "What do two
  fingers of a bourgeois brat matter when every year sixty thousand Peru
  children die before the age of five?"
  "We're Americans!" Angus hurled at him. "We're not to blame for that!"
  "You are! The capitalist system, your system which exploits the people,
  is depraved, destructive. It is to blame . . ."
  Miguel's statistics about the deaths of children were a quote from
  Abimael Guzm6n, Sendero Luminoso's founder. As Miguel knew, Guzmdn's
  figure might be exaggerated, but without question Peru's child
  malnutrition death toll was one of the highest in the world.
  While the epithets flowed back and forth, it happened quickly.
  The small table Gustavo had brought was moved in front of Nicky. While
  the boy continued to squirm and wriggle, begging and crying, pleading
  pitifully, Gustavo forced the boy's right index finger on top of the
  table so it was there alone, the other fingers curled back against the
  table's edge. Ram6n had produced a sheath knife. Now, grinning, he tested
  the bright blade's razor sharpness with a thumb.
  Satisfied, Ram6n moved forward, placed the blade against the second joint
  of Nicky's exposed finger and, with a single swift movement, brought the
  beel of his beefy left hand down sharply against the back of the knife.
  With a thunk sound, a spurt of blood, and a piercing scream from Nicky,
  the finger was almost severed, but not quite. Ram6n lifted the knife,
  then cut away the remaining tissue and flesh to complete the finger's
            The Evening News     473

 severance. Nicky's despairing cries, now from pain, were shrill and
 harrowing-
  Blood flooded the tabletop and was on the hands of the men holding Nicky.
  They ignored it and moved the boy's little finger, also of the right
  hand, from the table's edge to the top. This time the action and result
  were faster. With a single chop of Ram6n's knife, the finger was
  separated from the hand, falling clear while more blood spurted.
  Socorro, who had collected the first severed finger and put it in a
  plastic bag, now added the second and passed the bag to Miguel. Socorro
  was pale, her lips compressed. She glanced briefly toward Jessica whose
  face was covered with her hands, her body racked by sobbing.
  By now, Nicky-barely conscious, his features ashen white -had fallen back
  on the narrow bed, his screaming turned to agonized moans. As Miguel,
  Ram6n and the fourth man moved out from the cell, taking the bloody table
  with them, Socorro told Gustavo whom she had signaled to wait, "Agarra
  el chico. iSientalol"
  Responding, Gustavo raised Nicky to a seated position and held him while
  Socorro moved outside, returning with a bowl of warm soapy water she had
  brought when the group arrived. Taking Nicky's right hand and holding it
  upright, Socorro carefully washed the raw stumps of the two severed
  fingers to forestall infection. The water turned bright red as she did.
  Then, after covering both wounds with several gauze pads, she securely
  bandaged the entire hand. Even through pads and bandage, bloodstains
  showed, though it appeared the flow of blood was slowing.
  Through it all, Nicky, clearly in shock, his whole body trembling,
  neither helped nor hindered what was being done.
  Miguel was still in the area outside the cells and Jessica, who had moved
  to her own cell doorway called to him tearfully. "Please let me go to my
  son! Please, please, please!"
  Miguel shook his head. He said contemptuously, "No mother for a gutless
  chicken! Let the mocoso try to become a man!"
  "He's more of a man than you will ever be." The voice was
 474       ARIYIUR HAILEY

 Angus's, filled with rage and loathing; he too had moved to the doorway
 of his cell to face Miguel. Angus groped for the Spanish curse Nicky had
 taught him a week before. "You . . . iMaldito hijo de puta! "
  Angus remembered what it meant: Cursed son of a whorel Nicky had repeated
  to Angus what his playground Cuban friends had told him: To bring a man's
  mother into a Spanish curse was the gravest insult possible.
  Slowly, deliberately, Miguel turned his bead. He looked directly at Angus
  with eyes that were glacial, vicious and unforgiving. Then, his face set,
  his expression unchanged, he turned away.
  Gustavo had emerged from Nicky's cell in time to hear the words and
  observe Miguel's reaction. Shaking his head, Gustavo said to Angus in his
  halting English, "Old man, you make bad mistake. He not forget."

  As the hours passed, Jessica became increasingly concerned about Nicky's
  mental state. She had tried talking to him, attempting to find some way,
  through words, to comfort him, but with no success or even a response.
  Part of the time Nicky lay still, occasionally moaning. Then suddenly his
  body would jerk several times and sharp cries escape him, followed by a
  bout of trembling. Jessica was sure that severed nerves caused the
  movement and accompanying pain. As far as she could tell, most of the
  time Nicky's eyes were open but his face was blank.
  Jessica even pleaded for an answer. "Just a word, Nicky darling! Just a
  word! Please-say something, anything!" But there was no response. Jessica
  wondered if perhaps she was going mad herself. The inability to reach
  out, to touch and hold her son, to try to bring some solace physically,
  was a frustrating denial of what she craved.
  For a while Jessica herself, close to hysteria, tried to empty her head
  of thoughts and, lying down, shed silent, bitter tears.
  Then with a mental chiding . . . Take hold! Pull yoursel( together! Don't
  give inI . . . she resumed the attempt to talk with Nicky.
                                   __1

            The Evening News      475

  Angus joined in but the result was as unproductive as before.
  Food arrived and was put into their cells. Not surprisingly, Nicky took
  no notice, Knowing she should preserve her strength, Jessica tried to eat
  but found she had no appetite and pushed the food away. She had no idea
  how Angus fared.
  Darkness came. As the night advanced, the guard changed. Vicente came on
  duty. Sounds from outside grew fainter and, when only the hum of insects
  could be beard, Socorro arrived. She was carrying the water bowl she had
  used before, several more gauze pads, a bandage, and a kerosene lamp she
  took with her into Nicky's cell. Gently she sat Nicky upright and began
  to change the dressing on his hand.
  Nicky seemed easier, less in pain, the jerking of his body more
  infrequent.
  After a while Jessica called out softly, "Socorro, please . . ."
  Immediately Socorro swung around. Putting a finger to her lips, she
  signaled Jessica to be silent. Uncertain about anything, disoriented by
  strain and anguish, Jessica complied.
  When the bandaging was done, Socorro left Nicky's cell but didn't lock
  it. Instead, she came to Jessica's and opened the padlock with a key.
  Again, the signal for silence. Then Socorro waved Jessica out from her
  cell and pointed to the open door of Nicky's.
  Jessica's heart lifted.
  "You must go back before daylight," Socorro whispered. She nodded in the
  direction of Vicente. "He will tell you when."
  About to move toward Nicky, Jessica stopped and turned. Impulsively,
  irrationally, she moved to Socorro and kissed the other woman's cheek.
  Moments later, Jessica was holding Nicky, careful of his bandaged hand.
  "Oh, Mom!" he said.
  As best they could, they hugged eacl-. other. Soon after, Nicky fell
  asleep.
 476       ARTHUR HAILEY

 At CBA News the systematic search of classified advertising placed in
 local newspapers over the past three months was about to be abandoned.
  When the search had begun a little more than two weeks earlier, it seemed
  important to locate what had been the kidnappers' United States
  headquarters. At the time it was hoped that even if the kidnap victims
  were not found, at least some clue might have been left behind as to
  where they had been taken.
  However, now that the Sloane family members were known to be in Peru,
  though only Sendero Luminoso knew exactly where, the search for the
  earlier base seemed less important.
  Particularly from a TV news point of view, a discovery and pictures of
  the scene would still be of interest. But as to its being helpful in any
  important way, the likelihood grew less as days went by.
  Still, the effort had not been a failure. Jonathan Mony's search of local
  papers had produced the Spanish language weekly Semana, containing
  information which led directly to the undertaker Alberto Godoy.
  Questioning of Godoy revealed his sale of caskets to, and positive
  identification of, the terrorist Ulises Rodriguez. And later still,
  pressure on Godoy provided clues leading to the American-Amazonas Bank,
  the apparent murder of the UN diplomat Jos& Antonio Salaverry and his
  mistress, Helga Efferen, plus their connection with Peru.
  Those deveiopments alone, it was generally agreed, had made the
  advertising search project worthwhile.
  But would further searching be likely to produce anything more?
  Don Kettering, now heading the CBA News special kidnap task force, didn't
  think so. Nor did the task force senior pro-
              The Evening News     477

 ducer, Norman Jaeger. Even Teddy Cooper, who originated the search idea and
 had supervised it closely from the beginning, had trouble finding reasons to
 continue.
  The matter came up at a task force meeting on Tuesday morning.
  It was now four days since Friday's disclosure of all that was known to CBA
  News about the kidnap, its perpetrators and the victims' presence in Peru,
  plus the later news on Friday evening which included the videotape of
  Jessica Sloane along with Sendero Luminoso's demands.
  In the meantime there had been the upsetting revelation of Theodore
  Elliott's indiscretion, resulting in worldwide knowledge of a CBA decision
  intended to be kept confidential untilat the earliest-the following
  Thursday. It was notable that no one at CBA News criticized the Baltimore
  Star, realizing that the Star's reporter and editors had done what any
  other news organization would in such circumstances, probably including
  CBA.
  Theodore Elliott had neither explained nor apologized for what had
  occurred.
  In Peru, Harry Partridge, Minh Van Canh and the sound man, Ken O'Hara, had
  been joined on Saturday by Rita Abrams and the videotape editor, Bob
  Watson. Their first combined report was transmitted by satellite from Lima
  on Monday and led CBA's National Evening News that night.
  Partridge's editorial theme had been the drastically deteriorating
  situation in Peru--economically and in terms of law and order. Sound bites
  from the Peruvian radio man, Sergio Hurtado, and Manuel Le6n Seminario,
  owner-editor of Escena, made those points, supplemented by pictures of an
  angry mob from the barridas looting a food store and defying police.
  In the words of Hurtado, "This was a democratic land full of promise, but
  we are now on the same grievous voyage of selfdestruction as Nicaragua, El
  Salvador, Venezuela, Colombia and Argentina."
  And Seminario had posed the unanswerable question: "What is it in us Latin
  Americans that makes us chronically incapable ofstable government?" He
  continued, "We are such a
 478        ARTHUR HAILEY

 sorry contrast to our prudente neighbors in the north. While Canada and
 the U.S. achieve an enlightened concord on free trade, making their
 nations sturdy and stable for generations to come, we in the south still
 polarize and slaughter."
  In an attempt to balance the report, Rita-at Partridge's suggestion-tried
  to arrange a recorded interview with President Castafteda. It was
  refused. Instead, a second-line government minister, Eduardo Loayza, was
  made available and had taken a placebo line. The problems of Peru were
  temporary, he claimed through an interpreter. The country's bankrupt
  economy would be turned around. The power of Sendero Luminoso was
  diminishing, not growing. And the American prisoners of Sendero would be
  found and released soon by Peru's military or police.
  Loayza's remarks were included in Monday's evening news report, but the
  man and his message were-as Rita expressed it -"like fly piss in the
  wind."
  Communication between the CBA Lima contingent and CBA New York was
  frequent, with Partridge and Rita being filled in on stateside
  developments, including the videotape of Jessica, Sendero's demands and
  the Elliott snafu. The last left Partridge incredulous and angry that the
  clandestine approach he was attempting should have been so crudely
  undermined. Nonetheless, he resolved to continue the tactics he had
  begun.
  It was probably because the initiative within CBA had passed from New
  York to Lima that at Tuesday's task force meeting so much attention was
  paid to the relatively minor matter of the classified advertising search.
  "I brought it up," Norm Jaeger told Les Chippingham, who had joined the
  meeting late, "because you were worried about the cost, which is still
  substantial, though we can stop it any time.,,
  "Touch&!" Chippingham acknowledged. "But the rest of you were proven
  right, so let's make a decision on the merits." What he did not say was
  that the National Evening News ratings were now so extraordinarily high
  that being over budget had ceased to alarm him. If Margot Lloyd-Mason
  made a fuss,
            The Evening News     479

 he would simply point to the fact that under no other news president had
 the broadcast audience been as large.
  Chippingham asked Teddy Cooper, "What's your feeling, Teddy, about
  dropping that advertising search?"
  From across the conf6rence-room table, the young English researcher
  grinned. "Smashin' idea as it turned out, ch?"
  "Yes. That's why I'm asking you."
  "Still could be something comin' out-like turning over cards still bopin'
  for an ace, then finding one. Not as likely, though. If we drop it, I'll
  hafta come up with another brilliant notion."
  "Which he quite likely will," Norm Jaeger commented-a view one hundred
  and eighty degrees removed from his original assessment of the pushy
  Teddy Cooper.
  In the end it was decided to terminate the advertising search the
  following day.
  Then, three hours later, as if fate had kittenishly decided to intervene,
  a breakthrough in the search occurred-the kind hoped for from the
  beginning.

  At 2 P.m. in the task force conference room, Teddy Cooper took a phone
  call from Jonathan Mony.
  Mony, by now, had slipped into a supervisory role and for the past few
  days had been overseeing all the temporary researchers. An assumption was
  growing that when Mony's present work concluded, a permanent niche would
  be offered him in the News Division. On the phone he sounded breathless
  and excited.
  "I think we found it. Can you, and maybe Mr. Kettering, come out?"
  "Found what, and where are you?"
  "The place the kidnappers used, I'm almost sure. And I'm at Hackensack,
  New Jersey. There was an ad in the Recordthat's the local paper-and we
  followed through."
  "Hold it!" Cooper said. Don Kettering and Norman Jaeger had just walked
  in together. Cooper removed the phone from his ear and waved it. "It's
  Jonathan. He thinks he found Snatchers City."
 480        ARTHUR HAILEY

  A speakerphone was on a desk nearby. Jaeger pressed a button and the
  speaker came alive.
  "Okay, Jonathan," Kettering said. "Tell us what you have."
  Mony's amplified voice answered, "There was a classified ad in the
  Record. Seemed to fit what we were looking for. Shall I read it?"
  "Go ahead."
  The trio in the conference room heard a rustling of paper as Mony
  continued his report.
  The advertisement, they learned, had appeared on August 10-a month and
  four days before the Sloane kidnap, which put it within the estimated
  time frame of the pre-kidnap surveillance.

       HACKENSACK-SALE OR LEASE

Large traditional house in 3 acres, 6 bed, servant quarters,
suit multi-family or convert to nursing home, etc. Fire
places, oil heat, air cond Spacious outbuildings good for
vehicles, workshops, stables. Secluded location, privacy. At
tractive price or lease. Terms allow for some repairs needed.
PRANDUS & PAIGE
BrokerslDevelopers

  One of the young women researchers discovered the ad, buried among many
  others-the Record had one of the largest real estate advertising sections
  in the region. On reading it, she had contacted Jonathan Mony who was in
  the area and now carried a CBA paging device. He had joined her at the
  newspaper's business office from where Mony phoned the real estate
  brokers, Prandus & Paige.
  Initially he had not been optimistic. During the preceding two weeks
  there had been many such alerts. But after quick excitenients and
  follow-throughs including visits to "possible" premises, all had proven
  worthless. The likelihood that this latest scrutiny would be different
  did not seem great.
  In this case, as with most others, on learning that CBA was making the
  inquiry, the brokers were cooperative and supplied
            The Evening News     481

 an address. What was different was some added information: First, that
 almost at once after the ad appeared, a one-year lease had been taken on the
 property with full payment in advance. Second: A recent check revealed the
 house and buildings to be deserted, the lessees apparently having left.
  An official at the brokerage firm told Mony, "The tenants were there just
  over a month, and we haven't heard from them so we have no idea if they're
  coming back. Right now we're not sure what to do, and if you have any
  contact with the people, we'd appreciate hearing."
  Mony, his interest quickening, promised to keep the real estate firm
  informed. He then visited the property with the woman researcher.
  "I know we weren't supposed to follow up directly," he told Cooper and the
  others on the phone. "But that was before we heard the kidnappers were in
  Peru. Anyway, we've found some things we think are important and which made
  me decide to call you."
  He was telephoning from a caf6, he reported, about a mile from the empty
  house.
  "First, give us the directions," Kettering instructed. "Then go back to the
  house and wait. We'll be there as fast as we can."

  An hour later a CBA courier car pulled into the Hackensack property,
  bringing Don Kettering, Norm Jaeger, Teddy Cooper and a two-man camera
  crew.
  As Kettering stepped from the car, he surveyed the old decaying buildings
  and commented, "I can see why that ad mentioned 'repairs needed."'
  Cooper folded a map he had been studying. "This place is twenty-five miles
  from Larchmont. About what we figured."
  "You figured," Jaeger said.
  Mony introduced the young woman researcher, Cokie Vale, a petite redhead.
  Cooper recognized her instantly. When the temporary researchers first
  assembled she had asked whether, at the stage they appeared to have reached
  now, a camera crew would be on hand.
  "I remember your question," he told her and gestured to
 482       ART11UR HAILEY

 the crew assembling its equipment. "As you can see, the answer's 'yes.' "
  She flashed him a dazzling smile.
  "The first thing you should see," Jonathan Mony said, "is on the second
  floor of the house."
  As the others followed, he led the way into the dilapidated main house and
  up a wide, curving stairway. Near the head of the stairs he opened a door
  and stood back while others filed in.
  The room they entered was in total contrast to what had been seen
  elsewhere. It was clean, painted a hygienic white and with new pale-green
  linoleum covering the floor. Mony switched on overhead fluorescent lights,
  also obviously new, revealing two hospital cots, both with side restraining
  rails and straps. In contrast to the cots was a narrow, battered metal bed;
  it, too, had straps attached.
  Pointing to the bed, Kettering said, "It looks as if that was an
  afterthought. The whole place is like a first-aid station."
  Jaeger nodded. "Or set up to handle three doped people, one of them
  unexpected."
  Mony opened a cupboard door. "Whoever was here didn't bother to clear out
  all this stuff before they left."
  Facing them were some assorted medical supplies-hypodermic needles,
  bandages, rolls of cotton batting, gauze pads and two pharmaceutical
  containers, both unopened.
  Jaeger picked up one of the containers and read aloud, "'Diprivan . . .
  propofol'-that's the generic name." He peered at fine print on the label.
  "It says 'for intravenous anesthesia.' " As he and Kettering looked at each
  other, "It all fits. Doesn't seem much doubt."
  "Can I show you downstairs?" Mony prompted.
  "Go ahead," Kettering told him. "You're the one who's had time to look
  around."
  Entering a small outbuilding, Mony pointed to an iron stove, choked with
  ashes. "Somebody did a lot of burning here. Didn't get everything, though."
  He picked up a partially burned magazine, the name Caretas visible.
  "That magazine's Peruvian," Jaeger said. "I know it well."
  They moved to a larger building. Inside, it was obvious it
            The Evening News     483

 had been a paint shop. Virtually no attempt had been made to clear the
 building. Cans of paint-some partially used, others unopened, still
 remained. Most were labeled AUTO LACQUER.
  Teddy Cooper was looking at colors. "Remember when we talked to people who
  saw the Sloane surveillance? Some reported seeing a green car, yet none of
  the kinds of motors they mentioned were manufactured in that color. Well,
  here's green enamel-and yellow too."
  "This is the place," Jaeger said. "It has to be."
  Kettering nodded. "I agree. So let's get to work. We'll use this on the
  news tonight."
  "There is one more thing," Mony said. "Something Cokie spotted outside."
  This time the attractive redhead took center stage. She led the group to a
  cluster of trees away from the house and outbuildings and explained,
  "Somebody's been digging here-not long ago. Afterward they tried to level
  the ground but didn't manage it. The grass hasn't grown back either."
  Cooper said, "It looks as if earth was taken out and something buried,
  which is why it hasn't packed down."
  Among the group, eyes shifted back and forth. Cooper now seemed uncertain,
  Jaeger looked away. If something had been buried--what? A body, or bodies?
  Everyone present knew that it was possible.
  Jaeger said doubtfully, "We'll have to call the FBI about this place. Maybe
  we should wait and let them . . ."
  Behind the remark was the fact that after Friday's National Evening News,
  the FBI Director in Washington had telephoned Margot Lloyd-Mason and
  strongly protested CBA's failure to inform the FBI immediately of new
  developments. Surprising some at CBA, the network president did not take
  the complaint too seriously, perhaps believing the organization could with-
  stand any government pressure and was unlikely to be charged in court. She
  merely apprised Les Chippingham of the call. The news president, in turn,
  cautioned the task force to keep law enforcement authorities informed
  unless there was some compelling reason not to do so.
  Obviously, because physical evidence was involved at the
 484        ARTHUR HAILEY

 Hackensack house, the FBI must be advised of the discoverycertainly before
 broadcast time tonight.
  "Sure we'll tell the FBI," Kettering said. "But first I'd like to take
  a look at what's under that ground, if anything."
  "There are some shovels in the furnace room," Mony said.
  "Get them," Kettering told him. "We're all healthy. Let's start digging."
  A short time later it became evident that what they were opening was not
  a grave. Instead it was a repository of discarded items left by the
  property's recent occupants and presumably intended to stay hidden. Some
  things were innocuous -food supplies, clothing, toilet objects,
  newspapers. Others were more significant-additional medical supplies,
  maps, some Spanish-language paperback books and automotive tools.
  "We know they had a fleet of trucks and cars," Jaeger said. "Maybe the
  FBI will find out what they did with them-if it matters at this point."
  "I don't think any of this matters right now," Kettering ruled. "Let's
  quit."
  During the digging, videotaping had been started-initially a sound bite
  by Cokie Vale describing her search of classified advertising and how it
  led to the Hackensack house. On camera she was personable, expressed
  herself clearly and was economical with words. It would be her first
  appearance on television, she acknowledged afterward. Those watching had
  an instinct it would not be her last.
  Jonathan Mony, it was felt, had earned some camera exposure too and
  repeated his showing of the upstairs room where the kidnapped trio had
  almost certainly been held. He also was effective.
  "If this endeavor's done nothing else," Jaeger commented to Don
  Kettering, "it's brought us some new talent."
  Mony, having returned from the house, was down in the excavated hole and
  had resumed digging when Kettering made the decision to quit. About to
  climb out, Mony felt his foot touch something solid and probed with his
  shovel. A moment later he had pulled out an object and called, "Hey, look
  at this!"
            The Evening News     485

  It was a cellular phone in a canvas outer cover.
  Passing up the phone to Cooper, Mony said, "I think there's another
  underneath."
  Not only was there another, but four more after that. Soon the six were
  laid out, side by side.
  "The people who used this place weren't short of money," Cokie observed.
  "Chances are it was drug money; anyway, they had plenty," Don Kettering
  told her. He regarded the phones thoughtfully. "But maybe-just maybe we're
  getting somewhere."
  Jaeger asked, "Are records kept of all cellular phone calls?"
  "Sure are." Kettering, who as business correspondent had recently done a
  news feature on the booming cellular phone market, answered confidently.
  "There are also lots of other records including a regular phone user's name
  and billing address. For these the gang needed a local accomplice." He
  turned to Cooper. "Teddy, on each phone there'll be an area code followed
  by a regular number, just as on a house or office line." ,
  "I'm tuned in," Cooper said. "You'd like me to make a list?"
  "Please!"
  While Cooper worked, they continued videotaping the house and buildings.
  In a correspondent's standup, Kettering said:

   ,'Some may believe discovery of the abandoned American base of the
   kidnappers is, at this point, too little too late. That may be true.
   But meanwhile the FBI and others will sift evidence found here while
   the world watches anxiously, continuing to hope.
   "Don Kettering, CBA News, Hackensack, New Jersey.

  Before leaving, they called in the local police, asking them to inform the
  FBI.

  Even before the National Evening News went on the air, Kettering had
  telephoned a friend high in NYNEX Corpora-
   486        ARTHUR HAILEY

 tion, operators of the New York and New Jersey telephone systems. Holding
 in his hand the list of numbers compiled by Teddy Cooper, Kettering
 explained what he needed-the name and address of the person or persons to
 whom the six telephones were registered, plus a list of all calls made to
 or from those numbers during the past two months.
  "You realize, of course," his friend-an executive vice president-informed
  him, "that not only would giving you that information be a violation of
  privacy, but I would be acting illegally and could lose my job. Now, if
  you were an investigative agency with a warrant-"
  "I'm not and I can't be," Kettering replied. "However, it's a safe bet
  the FBI will be asking for the same information tomorrow and they'll have
  one. All I want are those answers first."
  "Oh my god! How did I get mixed up with a character like you?"
  "Since you ask, I remember your wanting a favor from CBA once or twice
  and I delivered. Come on! We've trusted each other since business school
  and never regretted it."
 At the other end, a sigh. "Give me the damn numbers."
  After Kettering had recited the list, his friend continued, "You said the
  FBI tomorrow. I suppose that means you need to know tonight."
  "Yes, but any time this side of midnight. You can call me at home. You
  have the number?"
 "Unfortunately, yes."

  The call came at 10:45 P.m., just after Don Kettering arrived at his East
  Seventy-seventh Street apartment, having stayed late at CBA. His wife,
  Aim6e, answered, then handed him the phone.
  "I saw your news this evening," his NYNEX friend said. "I presume those
  cellular numbers you gave me are those used by the kidnappers."
 "It looks that way," Kettering acknowledged.
 "In that case, I wish I had more for you. There isn't a lot.
            The Evening News     487

 First, the phones are all registered to a Helga Efferen. I have an address."
  "I doubt if it's current. The lady's dead. Murdered. I hope she didn't owe
  you money."
  "Jesus! You news guys are cold-blooded." After a pause, the NYNEX man went
  on, "About the money, it's actually the reverse. Right after numbers were
  issued for those phones, someone made a deposit of five hundred dollars for
  each account-three thousand dollars in all. We didn't ask for it, but it
  went on the books as a credit."
  Kettering said, "I imagine the people using the phones didn't want anyone
  sending bills or asking awkward questions until they were safely out of the
  country."
  "Well, for whatever reason, most of the money's still there. Less than a
  third was used and that's because, with one exception, all calls were
  solely between the six phones and not to other numbers. Local interphone
  calls get charged, but not all that heavily. "
  "Everything points to the kidnappers' organization and discipline,"
  Kettering affirmed. "But you said there was an exception."
  "Yes---on September 13, an international direct-dial call to Peru."
  "That's the day before the kidnap. Do you have a number?"
  "Of course. It was 01 1-that's the international access code -51, which is
  Peru, then 14-28-9427. My people tell me that '14' is Lima. Exactly where
  is something you'll have to find out."
  "I'm sure we will. And thanks!"
  "I hope some of that helps. Good luck!"
  Moments later, after consulting a notebook, Kettering tapped out a number
  for another call: 011-51-14-44-1212.
  When a voice answered, "Buenas tardes, Cesar's Hotel," Kettering requested,
  "Mr. Harry Partridge, porfavor. "
 488        ARTHUR HAILEY

                8

 It had been a discouraging day for Harry Partridge. He was tired and, in
 his hotel suite, had gone to bed shortly before ten o'clock. But his
 thoughts were still churning. He was brooding on Peru.
  The whole country, he thought, was a paradox-a conflicting mixture of
  military despotism and free democracy. In much of the republic's remoter
  regions the military and so-called antiterrorist police ruled with steel
  fists and frequent disregard of law. They were apt to kill wantonly,
  afterward labeling their victims "rebels," even when they were not-as
  independent inquiry often showed.
  A U.S. human rights organization, Americas Watch, had done a creditable
  job, Partridge believed, in seeking out and recording what it called "a
  cascade of extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests, disappearances
  and torture," all "central features" in the government's
  counterinsurgency campaign.
  On the other hand, Americas Watch did not spare the rebels. In a recently
  published report, open beside the bed, it said Sendero Luminoso
  "systematically murders defenseless people, places explosives that
  endanger the lives of innocent bystanders and attacks military targets
  without minimizing the risk to the civilian population"-all "violations
  of the most fundamental rules of international humanitarian law."
  As to the country generally, "Peru now has the sad privilege to be
  counted among the most violent and dangerous places in South America."
  An inescapable conclusion, confirmed by other sources, was that little
  difference existed between rebel and government forces when it came to
  random slaughter and other assorted savagery.
  Yet, at the same time, strong democratic elements existed in
            The Evening News     489

 Peru-more real than mere faqades, a word sometimes used by critics. Freedom
 of the press was one, a tradition seemingly ingrained. It was that same
 freedom which allowed Partridge and other foreign reporters to travel,
 question, probe, then report however they decided, without fear of expulsion
 or reprisal. True, there had been exceptions to the principle but so far
 they were rare and isolated.
  Partridge had come close to that subject today during an inter-view with
  General Raftl Ortiz, chief of anti-terrorism police. "Does it not concern
  you," he had asked the erect, unsmiling figure in plain clothes, "that
  there are so many responsible reports of your men being guilty of brutality
  and illegal executions?"
  "It would concern me more," Ortiz replied in a half-contemptuous tone, "if
  my men were the ones executed-as they would be if they did not defend
  themselves from those terrorists which you and others seem to care so much
  about. As to the untrue reports, if our government tried to suppress them,
  people like you would raise great howls and keep repeating them. Thus a
  one-day news trifle, forgotten twenty-four hours later, is usually
  preferable."
  Partridge had requested the interview with Ortiz, believing he should cover
  the ground, though doubting that much would be gained. Through the Ministry
  of the Interior the meeting was arranged promptly, though a request to
  bring a camera crew was denied. Also, when Partridge was searched before
  being allowed to enter the police general's office, a minitape recorder in
  his pocket, which he had intended to ask permission to use, was removed
  outside. Nothing was said, though, about the talk being off the record and
  the general made no objection to his visitor's taking notes.
  General Ortiz's unpretentious wood-paneled office was one of a warren of
  similar offices in an old, massive raw-cement building in downtown Lima.
  High walls surrounded the structure, half of which had once been a prison.
  Getting inside had entailed clearance by a succession of suspicious guards;
  then, walking across a courtyard within the walls, Partridge had passed
  rows of armored personnel carriers, as well as trucks
 490        ARTHUR HAILEY

 with anti-riot water cannon. While talking with the general, Partridge was
 aware that beneath them in the building's basement were cell blocks where
 prisoners were often held for two weeks without any outside contact, and
 other cells where interrogation and torture regularly took place.
  At the outset of the Ortiz interview, Partridge asked the question
  uppermost in his mind: whether the anti-terrorism police had any idea where
  the three Sloane kidnap victims were being held.
  "I thought you might have come to tell me that, judging by the many people
  you have seen since coming here," the General responded. It was an
  admission and perhaps a not-so-subtle warning, Partridge thought, that his
  movements were being watched. He guessed, too, that CBA's satellite
  transmissions to New York, as well as those of other U.S. networks were
  being monitored and recorded by the Peruvian Government, press freedom
  notwithstanding.
  When Partridge declared he had no information about the location of the
  American captives despite his efforts, Ortiz said, "Then you are aware how
  devious and secretive those enemies of the state, Sendero Luminoso, can be.
  Also that this is a country far different from your own, with vast spaces
  where it is possible to hide armies. But, yes, we have ideas as to areas
  where your friends might be and our forces are searching those."
  "Will you tell me which areas?" Partridge asked.
  "I do not believe that would be wise. In any case it would not be possible
  to go there yourself. Or do you, perhaps, have some such plan?"
  Although Partridge did have a plan, he replied negatively.
  The remainder of the interview went much the same way, neither participant
  trusting the other and playing cat-andmouse, attempting to obtain
  information without revealing all of his own. In the end neither succeeded,
  though in a summary for the National Evening News, Partridge did use two
  quotes from General Ortiz-the one about Peru's "vast spaces where it is
  possible to hide armies" and the cynical observation that
            The Evening News     491

 alleged human rights violations were "a one-day news trifle, forgotten
 twenty-four hours later."
  Since there was no recording, New York used both quotes in print on-screen,
  beneath a still photo of the general.
  Partridge did not, however, regard his visit as productive.
  More satisfying was an interview later in the day with Cesar Acevedo,
  another longtime friend of Partridge's and a lay leader of the Catholic
  Church. They met in a private office at the rear of the Archbishop's Palace
  on the Plaza de Armas, official center of the city.
  Acevedo, a small, fast-talking, intense person in his fifties, had deep
  religious convictions and was a theological scholar. He was involved
  full-time with church administration and had considerable authority, though
  he had never taken the ultimate step of becoming a priest. If he had,
  friends were apt to say, by now he would be a bishop at the very least, and
  eventually a cardinal.
  Cesar Acevedo had never married, though he was a prominent figure socially
  in Lima.
  Partridge liked Acevedo because he was always what he appeared to be, as
  well as unassuming and totally honest. On an earlier occasion when
  Partridge asked why he had never entered the priesthood, he replied,
  "Profoundly as I love God and Jesus Christ, I have never felt willing to
  surrender my intellectual right to be a skeptic, should that ever happen,
  though I pray it never will. But if I became a priest I would have surren-
  dered that right. As a young man, and even now, I could never quite bring
  myself to do it."
  Acevedo was executive secretary of the Catholic Social Action Commission
  and was involved with outreach programs which brought medical help to
  remote parts of the country where no doctors or nurses were regularly
  available.
  "I believe," Partridge asked early in their meeting, "that from time to
  time you have to deal with Sendero Luminoso."
  Acevedo smiled. " 'Have to deal' is correct. The Church does not, of
  course, approve of Sendero--either its objectives or methods. But as a
  practical matter a relationship exists, though a peculiar one."
 492        ARTHUR HAILEY

  For reasons of its own, the lay leader explained, Sendero Luminoso did not
  like antagonizing the Church and rarely attacked it as an institution. Yet
  the rebel group did not trust individual Church officials, and when some
  anti-government action or other insurrection was intended, the rebels
  wanted priests and other church workers out of the area so they could not
  witness it.
  "They will simply tell a priest or our social workers, 'Get out of here!
  We don't want you around! You will be told when you can return.' "
  "And your priests obey that kind of order?"
  Acevedo sighed. "It does not sound admirable, does it? But usually yes,
  because there is little choice. If the order is disobeyed Sendero will not
  hesitate to kill. A live priest can go back eventually. A dead priest
  cannot."
  A sudden thought occurred to Partridge. "Are there any places, right at
  this moment, where your people have been told to leave, where Sendero
  Luminoso doesn't want outside attention?"
  "There is one such area and it is creating a considerable problem for us.
  Come! I will show you on the map." They walked to a wall where, under a
  plastic cover with crayon markings, a large map of Peru was mounted.
  "It's this entire area right here." Acevedo pointed to a section of San
  Martin Province, ringed in red. "Until about three weeks ago we had a
  strong medical team in here, performing an assistance program we carry out
  each year. A lot of what they do is vaccinate and inoculate children. It's
  important because the area is part of the Selva, where jungle diseases
  abound and can be fatal. Anyway, about three weeks ago Sendero Luminoso,
  which controls the area, insisted that our people leave. They protested,
  but they had to go. Now we want to get our medics back in. Sendero says
  no."
  Partridge studied the encircled section. He had hoped it would be small.
  Instead it was depressingly large. He read place names, all far apart:
  Tocache, Uchiza, Sion, Nueva Esperanza, Pachiza. Without much hope he wrote
  them down. In the unlikely event of the captives being at one of those
  places, it would
            The Evening News     493

 do no good to enter the area without knowing which. Effecting a rescue
 anywhere would be difficult, perhaps impossible. The only slim chance
 would be total surprise.
  "I suspect I know what you are thinking," Acevedo said, "You are
  wondering if your kidnapped friends are somewhere in that circle."
  Partridge nodded without speaking.
  "I do not believe so. If it were the case I think there would have been
  some rumor. I have heard none. But our church has a network of contacts.
  I will send out word and report to you if anything is learned."
  It was the best he could hope for, Partridge realized. But time, he knew,
  was running out and he was no closer to knowing the whereabouts of the
  imprisoned Sloane trio than when he had arrived.
  The thought had depressed him while in the Archbishop's Palace. Now, in
  his hotel room, remembering that and the other events of the day, he had
  a sense of frustration and failure at his lack of progress.
  Abruptly, the bedside telephone rang.
  "Harry, is that you?" Partridge recognized Don Kettering's voice.
  They exchanged greetings, then Kettering said, "Some things have happened
  that I thought you ought to know about."

  Rita, also in Cesar's Hotel, answered her room phone on the second ring.
  "I've just had a call from New York," Partridge said. He repeated what
  Don Kettering had told him about discovery of the Hackensack house and
  the cellular phones, adding, "Don gave me a Lima number that was called.
  I want to find out whose it is and where."
  "Give it to me," Rita said.
  He repeated it: 28-9427.
  "I'll try to get that Entel guy, Victor Velasco, and start him working
  on it. Call you back if there's any news."
  She did in fifteen minutes. "I managed to get Velasco at
 494        ARTHUR HAILEY

 home. He says it isn't something his department handles and he may have a
 little trouble getting the information, but thinks he can have it by
 morning."
  "Thanks," Partridge said and, soon after, was asleep.

                 9

 It was not until midafternoon on Wednesday that the Lima telephone number
 relayed through Don Kettering was identified. Entel Peru's international
 manager was apologetic about the delay. "It is, of course, restricted data,"
 Victor Velasco explained to Partridge and Rita, who were in CBA's Entel
 editing booth where they had been working with the editor, Bob Watson, on
 another news spot for New York.
  "I had trouble persuading one of my colleagues to release the information,"
  Velasco continued, "but eventually I succeeded."
  "With money?" Rita asked and, when he nodded, she said, "We'll reimburse
  you."
  A sheet torn from a memo pad contained the information: Calder6n, G-547
  Huancavelica Street, ]OF
  "We need Ferniindez," Partridge said.
  "He's on his way here," Rita informed him, and the swarthy, energetic
  stringer-fixer arrived within the next few minutes. He had continued
  working with Partridge since his and Minh Van Canh's arrival at Lima
  airport and now assisted Rita in a variety of ways.
  Told about the Huancavelica Street address and why it might be important,
  Fernindez Pabur nodded briskly. "I know it. An old apartment building near
  the intersection with Avenida Tacna, and not what you would call"-he
  struggled for an English word-"palatial."
  "Whatever it is," Partridge told him, "I want to go there now." He turned
  to Rita. "I'd like you, Minh and Ken to come
            The Evening News,    495

 along, but first let me go inside alone to see what I can find out."
  "Not alone," Fernindez objected. "You would be attacked and robbed, maybe
  worse. I will be with you and so will Tom6s."
  Tonids, they had discovered, was the name of the burly,. taciturn
  bodyguard.
  The station wagon Femdndez had hired, which they now used regularly, was
  waiting outside the Entel building. Seven people including the driver
  made it crowded, but the journey took only ten minutes. "There is the
  place," Ferndndez said, pointing out of the window.
  Avenida Tacna was a wide, heavily traveled thoroughfare, Huancavelica
  Street crossing it at right angles. The district, while not as grim as
  the barriadas, had clearly fallen on bad days. Number 547 Huaricavelica
  was a large, drab building with peeling paint and chipped masonry. A
  group of men, some seated on ledges near the entrance, others standing
  idly around, watched while Partridge, FernAndez and Tomds stepped out of
  the station wagon, leaving Rita, Minh Van Canh and the sound man, Ken
  O'Hara, to wait with the driver.
  Aware of unfriendly, calculating expressions among the onlookers,
  Partridge was glad of Ferridridez's insistence that he not go inside
  alone.
  Within the building an odor of urine and general decay assaulted them.
  Garbage was strewn on the floor. Predictably, the elevator wasn't working
  so the men had no choice but to climb nine flights of grimy cement
  stairs.
  Apartment F was at the end of an unearpeted, gloomy corridor. At the
  plain slab door Partridge knocked. He could hear movement inside but no
  one came to the door and he knocked again. This time the door opened two
  or three inches only, halted by an inside chain. Simultaneously a woman's
  highpitched voice let loose a tirade in Spanish-her speech too fast for
  Partridge to follow, though he caught the words, "j.anirnales! . . .
  iasesinos! . . . idiablos!"
  He felt a hand touch his arm as Ferndndez's heavyset figure moved
  forward. With his mouth close to the opening, Ferndn-
   496        ARTHUR HAILEY

 dez spoke equally fast, but in reasonable, soothing tones. As he continued,
 the voice from inside faltered and stopped, then the chain was released and
 the door opened.
  The woman standing before them was probably around age sixty. Long ago she
  might have been beautiful, but time and hard living had made her blowsy and
  coarse, her skin blotchy, her hair a mixture of colors and unkempt. Beneath
  plucked, penciled eyebrows her eyes were red and swollen from crying and
  her heavy makeup was a mess. FernAndez walked in past her and the others
  followed. After a moment she closed the door, apparently reassured.
  Partridge glanced around quickly. The room they had entered was small and
  simply furnished with some wooden chairs, a sofa with worn upholstery, a
  plain, cluttered table and a bookcase roughly fashioned out of bricks and
  planks. Surprisingly, the bookcase was full, mainly with heavy volumes.
  Fernindez turned to Partridge. "It seems that just a few hours ago the man
  she lived with here was killed-murdered. She was out and came back to find
  him dead; the police have taken the body. She thought we were the people
  who killed him, come back to finish her too. I convinced her we are
  friends." He spoke to the woman again and her eyes moved to Partridge.
  Partridge assured her, "We are truly sorry to hear of your friend's death.
  Have you any idea who killed him?"
  The woman shook her head and murmured something. Fernindez said, "She
  speaks very little English," and translated for her. "Lo sentimos mucho la
  muerte de su amigo. ;Sabe Ud. qui6n lo maffi?"
  The woman nodded energetically, mouthing a stream of words ending with
  "Sendero Luminoso. "
  It confirmed what Partridge had feared. The person they had hoped to
  see-whoever he was-had connections to Sendero, but was now beyond reach.
  The question remained: Did this woman know anything about the kidnap
  victims? It seemed unlikely.
  She spoke again in Spanish, less rapidly, and this time Partridge
  understood. "Yes," he said to Fernfindez, "we would like
            The Evening News     497

 to sit down, and tell her I would be grateful if she will answer some
 questions."
  Ferndndez repeated the request and the woman replied, after which he
  translated. "She says yes, if she can. I have told her who you are and, by
  the way, her name is Dolores. She also asks if you would like a drink."
  "No, gracias, " Partridge said, at which Dolores nodded and went to a
  shelf, clearly intending to get a drink for herself But when she lifted a
  gin bottle she saw that it was empty. She seemed about to cry again, then
  murmured something before sitting down.
  FernAndez reported, "She says she doesn't know how she will live. She has
  no money."
  Partridge said directly to Dolores, "Le dar6 dinero si Ud. tiene la
  informaci6n que estoy buscando. "
  The mention of money produced another fast exchange between Dolores and
  Ferndndez who reported, "She says ask your questions."
  Partridge decided not to rely on his own limited Spanish and continued with
  Ferndndez translating. Questions and answers went back and forth.
  "Your man friend who was killed-what kind of work did he do?"
  "He was a doctor. A special doctor."
  "You mean a specialist?"
  "He put people to sleep."
  "An anesthesiologist?"
  Dolores shook her head, not understanding. Then she went to a cupboard,
  groped inside and produced a small, battered suitcase. Opening the case,
  she removed a file containing papers and leafed through them. Selecting
  two, she passed them to Partridge. He saw they were medical diplomas.
  The first declared that Hartley Harold Gossage, a graduate of Boston
  University Medical School, was entitled to practice medicine. The second
  diploma certified that the same Hartley Harold Gossage was "a properly
  qualified specialist in Anesthesiology."
 498        ARTHUR HAILEY

  With a gesture, Partridge asked if he could look at the other papers.
  Dolores nodded her approval.
  Several documents appeared to concern routine medical matters and were of
  no interest. The third he picked up was a letter on stationery of the
  Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine. Addressed to "H. H.
  Gossage, M.D.," it began, "You are hereby notified that your license to
  practice medicine has been revoked for life . . ."
  Partridge put the letter down. A picture was becoming clearer. The man who
  had lived here, reported to have just been murdered, was presumably
  Gossage, a disgraced, disbarred American anesthesiologist who had some
  connection with Sendero Luminoso. As to that connection, Partridge
  reasoned, the kidnap victims had been spirited out of the United States,
  presumably drugged or otherwise sedated at the time. In fact when he
  thought about it, yesterday's discoveries at the Hackensack house,
  described by Don Kettering, confirmed that. It seemed likely, therefore,
  that the former doctor, Gossage, had done the sedating. Partridge's face
  tightened. He wished he had been able to confront the man while he was
  alive.
  The others were watching him. With Femdndez's help he resumed the
  questioning of Dolores.
  "You told us Sendero Luminoso murdered your doctor friend. Why do you
  believe that?"
  "Because he worked for those bastardos. " A pause, then a recollection.
  "Sendero had a name for him-Baudelio."
 "How did you know this?"
 "He told me."
 "Did he tell you other things he did for Sendero?"
  "Some." A wan smile which quickly disappeared. "When we got drunk
  together."
  "Did you know about a kidnapping? It was in all the newspapers."
  Dolores shook her head. "I do not read newspapers. All they print is lies."
 "Was Baudelio away from Lima recently?"
  A vigorous series of nods. "For a long time. I missed him." A pause, then,
  "He phoned me from America."
            The Evening News     499

  "Yes, we know." Everything was fitting together, Partridge thought.
  Baudelio had to have been on the kidnap scene. He asked through
  Ferndndez, "When did he come back here?"
  Dolores considered before answering. "A week ago. He was glad to be back.
  He was also afraid he would be killed."
  "Did he say why?"
  Dolores considered. "I think he overheard something. About him knowing
  too much." She began to cry. "We had been together a long time. What
  shall I do?"
  There was one important question left. Partridge deliberately hadn't
  asked it yet and was almost afraid to. "After Baudelio was in America and
  before returning here, was he somewhere in Peru?"
  Dolores nodded affirmatively.
  "Did he tell you where that was?"
  "Yes. Nueva Esperanza."
  Partridge could scarcely believe what so suddenly and unexpectedly had
  come his way. His hands were shaking as he turned back pages in his
  notebook-to the interview with Cesar Acevedo and the list of places where
  Sendero Luminoso had ordered the Catholic medical teams to stay out. A
  name leapt out at him: Nueva Esperanza.
  He had it! He knew at last where Jessica, Nicky and Angus Sloane were
  being held.

  He was still first and foremost a TV news correspondent, Partridge
  reminded himself as he discussed with Rita, Minh and O'Hara the video
  shots they needed--of Dolores, the apartment, and the building's
  exterior. They were all in the tenth-floor apartment, Tomis having been
  sent down to bring the other three from the station wagon.
  Partridge wanted close-ups too of the medical diplomas and the
  Massachusetts letter consigning Gossage-cum-Baudelio to the medical
  profession's garbage heap. The American ex-doctor might have gone to his
  grave, but Partridge would make sure the vileness he had done the Sloane
  family was forever on record.
  However, even though Baudelio's apparent role in the kid- 500        ARTHUR HAILEY

 napping was important to the full news story, Partridge knew that
 releasing it now would be a mistake, leading others to the information
 that his CBA group possessed exclusively. But he wanted the Baudelio
 segment prepackaged, ready for use at a moment's notice when the proper
 time came.
  Dolores was videotaped in closeup, the sound recording of her voice in
  Spanish later to be faded out and a translation dubbed in. At the
  conclusion of her taping Fernfindez told Partridge, "She is reminding you
  that you promised her money."
  Partridge conferred with Rita who produced a thousand dollars in U.S.
  fifty-dollar bills. In the circumstances the payment was generous, but
  Dolores had provided an important break; also Partridge and Rita felt
  sorry for her and believed her statement that she knew nothing of the
  kidnap, despite her association with Baudelio.
  Rita instructed Fernindez, "Please explain it is against CBA policy to
  pay for a news appearance; therefore the money is for the use of her
  apartment and the information she gave us." It was a semantic
  distinction, often used by networks to do exactly what they said they
  didn't, but New York liked producers to go through the motions.
  Judging by Dolores's gratitude, she neither understood nor cared about
  the explanation. Partridge was sure that as soon as they had gone the
  empty gin bottle would be quickly replaced.
  Now his mind was free to move on to essentials-planning a rescue
  expedition to Nueva Esperanza as quickly as he could. At the thought of
  it his excitement rose, the old addiction to danger, guns and battle
  stirring within him.

               10

Crawford Sloane's instinct during every day of waiting was to
telephone Harry Partridge in Peru and ask, "Is there anything
new?" But he restrained himself, knowing that any breaking
                                                The Evening News     501

 news would come to him speedily enough. Also, he realized, it was
 important to leave Partridge undistracted and free to work in his own way.
 Sloane still had more faith in Partridge than anyone else who might have
 been sent on the Peru assignment.
  Another reason for holding back was that Harry Partridge had proved to
  be considerate, calling Sloane at home in Larchmont during some evenings
  or early mornings to fill him in on progress and background.
  It had been several days, though, since the last call from Peru and while
  disappointed at not hearing, Crawford Sloane assumed there was nothing
  to report.
  He was wrong.
  What Sloane did not and could not know was that Partridge had decided all
  communication between Lima and New York-telephone, satellite or
  written-was no longer secure. After the interview with General Ortiz,
  during which the chief of anti-terrorism police made plain that
  Partridge's movements were being watched, it seemed possible that
  telephones were tapped and perhaps even mail examined. Satellite
  transmissions could be viewed by anyone with the right equipment, and
  using a different phone line than usual carried no guarantee of privacy.
  Another reason for caution was that Lima was now crowded with
  journalists, including TV crews from other networks, all competing in
  covering the Sloane kidnap story and searching for new leads. So far,
  Partridge had managed to avoid the media crowd, but because of CBA's
  successful coverage already, he knew there was interest in where he went
  and whom he saw.
  For all those reasons Partridge decided not to discuss, especially by
  telephone, his visit to the Huancavelica Street apartment and what he had
  learned. He ordered the others in the CBA crew to observe the same rule,
  also cautioning them that the expedition they were planning to Nueva
  Esperanza must be veiled in total secrecy. Even CBA in New York would
  have to wait for word of that.
  Therefore, on Thursday morning in New York, knowing nothing of the
  breakthrough in Lima the day before, Crawford
 502        ARTHUR HAILEY

 Sloane went to CBA News headquarters, arriving slightly later than usual at
 10:55.
  A young FBI agent named Ivan Ungar, who had slept at the Larchmont house
  the night before, accompanied him. The FBI was stifl guarding against a
  possible attempt to kidnap Sloane and there were also rumors that anchor
  people at other networks were being protected too. However, since the
  original kidnappers had been heard from, the twenty-four-hour listening
  watch on Crawford Sloane's home and office phones had been discontinued,
  FBI Special Agent Otis Havelock was still involved with the case, and after
  Tuesday's discovery of the kidnappers' Hackensack headquarters had taken
  charge of FBI search efforts there. Another subject of FBI scrutiny, Sloane
  had learned, was Teterboro Airport because of its closeness to the
  Hackensack locale. An examination of outgoing flight records was being
  made, covering the period from immediately after the kidnap until the day
  it was known that the kidnap victims were in Peru. But progress was slow
  because of the large number of flight departures during those thirteen
  days.
  At CBA News, as Sloane entered the main-floor lobby, a uniformed security
  guard gave a casual salute, but there was no sign of a New York City
  policeman, as there had been for more than a week after the kidnap. Today
  the usual stream of people was moving in and out of the building and
  although those entering were cleared at a reception desk, Sloane wondered
  if CBA security had slipped back into its old, easygoing ways.
  From the lobby, accompanied by agent Ungar, he took an elevator to the
  fourth floor, then walked to his office adjoining the Horseshoe where
  several people looked up from their work to greet him. Sloane left the door
  of his office open. Ungar seated himself on a chair outside.
  As Sloane hung up the raincoat he had been wearing, he noticed on his desk
  a white Styrofoam package of the kind used by takeout restaurants. There
  were several such establishments in the neighborhood which did a brisk
  business at CBA, delivering snacks or meals in response to telephone calls.
  Since
            The Evening News     503

 Sloane had not ordered anything and usually had lunch in the cafeteria,
 he assumed the delivery was a mistake.
  To his surprise, though, he found that the package, tied neatly with
  white string, had "C. Sloane" written on it. Without much interest, he
  took scissors from a drawer and snipped the string, then eased the
  package open. He pulled out some pieces of folded white paper before the
  contents were revealed.
  After several seconds of staring in dazed disbelief, Crawford Sloane
  screamed-a tortured, earsplitting scream. Heads shot up among those
  working nearby. FBI agent Ungar leapt from his chair and raced in,
  drawing a gun as he moved. But Sloane was alone, screaming again and
  again, staring down at the package, his eyes wide and crazed, his face
  ashen.
  Others jumped up and ran to Sloane's office. Some went inside, a dozen
  or more blocked the doorway. A woman producer leaned over Sloane's desk
  and looked into the white box. "Oh, my god!" she uttered, then, feeling
  sick, went back outside.
  Agent Ungar examined the box, saw two human fingers, flecked with dried
  blood, and, swallowing his revulsion, swiftly took charge. He shouted to
  those in the office and crowding the doorway, "Everyone out, please!"
  Even while speaking, he picked up a phone, pressed the "operator" button
  and demanded, "Security-fast!" When there was an answer, he rapped out,
  "This is FBI Special Agent Ungar and I am giving you an order. Advise all
  guards that no one is to leave this building, as of this moment. There
  will be no exceptions and if anyone resists, use force. After you've
  given that order, call the city police for help. I am going to the main
  lobby now. I want someone from Security to meet me there."
  While Ungar had been speaking, Sloane collapsed into his chair. As
  someone said later, "He looked like death."
  The executive producer, Chuck Insen, elbowed his way through the growing
  throng outside and asked, "What's all this about?"
  Recognizing him, Ungar gestured to the white box, then instructed,
  "Nothing in here must be touched. I suggest you
 504        ARTHUR HAILEY

 take Mr. Sloane somewhere else and lock the door until I come back."
  Insen nodded, by then having seen the contents of the box and noting, as
  had others, that the fingers were small and delicate, clearly those of
  a child. Turning to face Sloane, he asked the inevitable question with
  his eyes. Sloane managed to nod and whisper, "Yes."
  "Oh, Jesus!" Insen murmured.
  Sloane seemed about to collapse. Insen put his arms around him, then
  still holding the anchorman, eased him from the room. Those at the
  doorway quickly cleared a path.
  Insen and Sloane went to the executive producer's office; on the way,
  Insen fired orders. He told a secretary, "Lock Mr. Sloane's office and
  let no one in except that FBI man. Then talk to the switchboard; there's
  a doctor on call-get him here. Say Mr. Sloane had a bad shock and may
  need sedation." To a producer, "Tell Don Kettering what's happened and
  get him up here; we'll need something for the news tonight." And to
  others, "The rest of you, get back to work."
  Insen's office had a large glass window overlooking the Horseshoe, with
  a venetian blind for privacy when needed. After helping Sloane into a
  chair, Insen lowered the blind.
  Control was coming back to Sloane, though he was leaning forward, his
  head in his hands. Speaking half to himself, half to Insen, he agonized,
  "Those people knew about Nicky and the piano. And how did they know? I
  let it out! It was me! At that press session after the kidnap."
  Insen said gently, "I remember that, Crawf. But you were answering a
  question; you didn't bring it up. In any case, who could have foreseen
  . . ." He stopped, knowing that reasoning at this moment would do no
  good.
  Afterward Insen would say to others, "I have to hand it to Crawf, He has
  guts. After that experience most people would have been pleading to do
  exactly what the kidnappers wanted. But right from the beginning Crawf's
  known we shouldn't, and couldn't, and has never wavered."
  There was a soft knock and the secretary came in. "A doctor's on the
  way," she said.
            The Evening News     505

  The temporary ban on people leaving the building was lifted when everyone
  inside or about to leave was identified and their presence accounted for.
  It seemed likely that the package with the fingers had been left much
  earlier, and since restaurant service people came and left frequently, no
  one had seen anything unusual.
  The FBI began an investigation at nearby takeout restaurants in an effort
  to determine who might have brought the package in, but nothing resulted.
  And while CBA Security was supposed to check all delivery people's
  identity, it was established that they did so irregularly, and even then
  in a perfunctory way.
  Any doubt about the fingers being Nicky's was quickly dispelled by an FBI
  check of Nicky's bedroom in the Sloanes' Larchmont house. Plenty of
  fingerprints remained there and matched those of the two severed fingers
  in the package on Crawford Sloane's desk.

  In the midst of the general gloom at CBA News, another significant delivery
  occurred, this one to Stonehenge. Early Thursday afternoon a small package
  found its way to Margot Lloyd-Mason's office suite. Inside was a videotape
  cassette sent by Sendero Luininoso.
  Because the tape was expected-Thursday delivery had been stated in
  Sendero's "The Shining Time Has Come" demand received six days
  earlier-arrangements had been made by Margot and Les Chippingham for the
  tape to be sent immediately by messenger to the CBA news president. As soon
  as Chippingharn teamed of its arrival, he called in Don Kettering and
  Norman Jaeger and the trio viewed the tape privately in Chippingham's
  office.
  All three noted at once the recording's high quality, both technically and
  in presentation. The opening titles, beginning with "World Revolution:
  Sendero Luminoso Shows the Way," were superimposed over the visual
  background of some of Peru's most breathtaking scenery-the brooding majesty
  of high Andes mountains and glaciers, Machu Picchu in awesome
 506        IRTHUR HAILEY

 splendor, the endless miles of green jungle, the and coastal desert and
 surging Pacific ocean. It was Jaeger who recognized the majestic music
 accompanying the opening: Beethoven's Third Symphony, Eroica.
  "They had production people who know their business," Kettering murmured.
  "I'd expected something cruder."
  "Not surprising, really," Chippingham said. "Peru's no backwater and they
  have talent there, the best equipment."
  "Which Sendero has big bucks to buy," Jaeger added. "Plus their foxy
  infiltration everywhere."
  Even the extremist spiel that followed was largely over kinetic scenes--of
  rioting in Lima, industrial strikes, clashes between police and protest
  marchers, the grisly aftermath of attacks on Andes villages by government
  forces. "We are the world," an unseen commentator expounded, "and the world
  is ready for a revolutionary explosion."
  Featured at length was an interview, stated to be with Abimael GuzmAn,
  Sendero Luminoso's founder and leader. Some uncertainty existed because the
  camera focused on the back of a seated person. The commentator explained,
  "Our leader has many enemies who would like to kill him. To show his face
  would help their vicious aims."
  Guzm,4n's supposed voice began in Spanish, "Compafieros revolucionarios,
  nuestro trabajo y objetivo es unir los creyentes en lafilosofia de Marx,
  Lenin, y Mao . . . " Then the words faded and a new voice continued,
  "Comrades, we must destroy worldwide a social order that is not fit to be
  preserved . . ."
  "Doesn't GuzmAn speak English?" Kettering queried.
  Jaeger answered, "Strangely, he's one of the few educated Peruvians who
  don't."
  What followed was predictable and had been spoken by Guzmdn many times
  before. "Revolution is justified because of imperialist exploitation of all
  poor people in the world." . . . "False reports blame Sendero Luminoso for
  inhumanity. Sendero is more humane than the superpowers who are willing to
  destroy mankind with nuclear arsenals, which our proletariat revolution
  will ban forever." . . . "The United States labor movement, an elite
  bourgeois class, has cheated and sold out
            The Evening News     507

 American workers." . ~ . "Communists in the Soviet Union are no better
 than imperialists. The Soviets have betrayed the Lenin revolution."
 "Cuba's Castro is a clown, an imperialist lackey."
  Guzmdn's statements were invariably, general. Those seeking specifics
  searched his speeches and writings in vain.
  "If we were running this instead of the evening news," Chippingham
  commented, "we'd have lost our audience by now and ratings would be in
  the cellar."
  The recorded half hour ended with additional Beethoven, some more scenic
  beauty and a rallying cry from the commentator, "Long life to
  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism, our guiding doctrine!"
  "All right," Chippingham said at the end, "as we agreed, I'm putting this
  tape away in my safe. Only the three of us have viewed it. I suggest we
  don't discuss with anyone what we've seen."
  Jaeger asked, "You're still going with Karl Owens's ideathe story that
  the cassette was damaged when we received it?"
  "For chrissakes! Do we have anything else? We're certainly not going to
  use that tape in place of Monday's news."
  "I guess we don't have anything else," Jaeger acknowledged.
  "As long as we understand," Kettering said, "that our chances of being
  believed aren't as good now-not after Theo Elliott's screwup with the
  Baltimore Star. "
  "Goddamn, I know that!" The news president's voice reflected the strain
  of the past few days. He glanced at a clock: 3:53. "At four o'clock, Don,
  break into the network with a bulletin. Say that we've received a tape
  from the kidnappers, but it's defective and we haven't been able to fix
  it. Getting a replacement tape to us is now up to Sendero Luminoso."
 "Right!"
  "Meanwhile," Chippingham, continued, "I'll call in press relations and
  issue a statement for the wire services, urging them to repeat it to
  Peru. Now let's move it!"
 508        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The misinformation issued by CBA News was circulated promptly and widely.
  Because Peru was one hour behind New York-the U.S. was still on daylight
  saving time, Peru wasn'tthe CBA statement was available in Lima for
  evening radio and TV news as well as the following day's newspapers.
  Also in the day's news, though circulated earlier, was a report about the
  discovery of Nicholas Sloane's severed fingers by his distraught father.
  In Ayacucho, Sendero Luminoso leaders noted both reports. As to the
  second, about a damaged tape, they did not believe it. What was needed
  immediately, they reasoned, was some action more compelling than a small
  boy's fingers.

                I I

 Afterward, Jessica remembered, she had a sense of foreboding as soon as
 she awoke that morning in the half-light of dawn. She had been sleepless
 through much of the night, mentally tormented, doubting that rescue would
 ever come. Over the past three days her earlier confidence in eventual
 freedom had ebbed away, though she tried to conceal from Angus and Nicky
 her diminishing hope. But was it likely, she wondered, that in this
 obscure portion of an alien, faraway land, some friendly force could find
 and so,.-nehow spirit them home? As more days went by, it seemed
 increasingly doubtful.
  What sent Jessica's morale tumbling had been the brutal dismembering of
  Nicky's right hand. Even if they got out of here, life could never again
  be the same for Nicky. His youthful, dearest dream, of becoming a piano
  maestro, was suddenly, irrevocably . . . so needlessly! . . . ended. And
  what other perils, including death perhaps, awaited them in days ahead?
  Nicky's fingers had been removed on Tuesday, Today was Friday. Yesterday
  Nicky had been less in pain, thanks to Socorro who had changed the
  dressings and bandage daily, but
            0
            The Evening News     509

 he was silent and brooding, unresponsive to Jessica's attempts to lift him
 from his deep despair. And there was always the separation between
 them-the close-spaced bamboo stalks and strong wire screen. Since the
 night Socorro had allowed Jessica to join Nicky in his cell, the favor had
 not been repeated, despite Jessica's pleading.
  Today, therefore, the immediate future seemed bleak, with little to hope
  for and everything to dread. As Jessica became fully awake she
  understood, as she never had before, a Thomas Hood poem learned in
  childhood which ended:

        But now, I often wish the night Had borne my breath away!

  But she knew that if applied to herself, the wish was selfish and
  defeatist. Despite everything else she must hang on, remaining the strong
  staff on which Nicky and Angus leaned.
  It was soon after those thoughts, and with the arrival of full daylight,
  that Jessica could hear activity outside and footsteps approaching the
  prisoners' shack. The first person to enter was Gustavo, leader of the
  guards, who went directly to Angus's cell and opened it.
  Miguel was immediately behind. He was scowling as he, too, moved toward
  Angus, carrying something Jessica had not seen him with before-an
  automatic rifle.
  The ominous implication was inescapable. At the sight of the powerful,
  ugly weapon Jessica's heart beat faster and her breath shortened. Oh, no!
  Not Angus!
  Gustavo had entered Angus's cell and roughly pulled the old man to his
  feet. Now Angus's hands were being tied behind him.
  Jessica called out, "Listen to me! What are you doing? Why?"
  Angus turned his head toward her, "Jessie dear, don't be distressed.
  There's nothing you can do. These people are barbarians, they don't
  understand decency or honor . . ."
  Jessica saw Miguel tighten his grip on his gun until his
 510        ARTHUR HAILEY

 knuckles were white. He commanded Gustavo impatiently,
 iDese prisa! iNo pierdas tiempol"
  Nicky was on his feet. He too had grasped the significance of the
  automatic rifle and asked, "Mom, what are they going to do to Gramps?"
  Not believing her own words, Jessica answered, "I don't know."
  Angus, his hands now tied, straightened his body, squared his shoulders
  and lookod over. "We haven't much time. Both of you-stay strong and keep
  believing! Remember, somewhere out there Crawford is doing everything he
  can. Help is coming!"
  Tears were streaming down Jessica's face. Her voice choked, she managed
  to call, "Angus, dearest Angus! We love you so much!"
  "I love you too, Jessie . . . Nicky!" Gustavo was pushing Angus forward,
  propelling him from the cell. They all knew now that he was going to his
  death.
  Stumbling, Angus call~d again, "Nicky, how about a song? Let's try one."
  Angus's voice lifted.

       "Ill be seeing you
        In all the old familiar places

  Jessica saw Nicky open his mouth but, both too choked with tears, neither
  he nor Jessica could join in.
  Angus was outside the shack now, beyond their sight. They could still
  hear his voice, though it was fading.

   "That this heart of mine embraces all day through In that small cqf~
   . . . "

  The voice faded entirely. There was only silence as they waited.
  Seconds passed. The wait seemed longer than it was, then the silence was
  broken by gunfire-four shots, closely spaced. Another brief silence, then
  a second burst of gunfire, the shots too fast to count.
            The Evening News     511

  Outside, at the edge of the jungle, Miguel stood over the dead figure of
  Angus Sloane.
  The first four shots he fired had killed the old man instantly. Then,
  remembering the insult of last Tuesday"Waldito hijo de puta!'~-and the
  contemptuous reference to "barbarians" only moments earlier, Miguel had
  stepped forward in a rage and emptied another fusillade from his Soviet-
  made AK-47 into the recumbent body.
  He had fulfilled the instructions received from Ayacucho late last night.
  Gustavo had also been informed of a distasteful chore which was now
  expected of him and which, with help from others, he could begin.
  A light airplane, operating for Sendero Luminoso, was now on its way to
  a nearby jungle airstrip which could be reached from Nueva Esperanza by
  boat. Very soon a boat would leave for the airstrip, after which the
  airplane would transport to Lima the result of Gustavo's work.

  Later that same morning in Lima, a car skidded to a halt outside the
  American Embassy on Avenida Garcilaso de la Vega. A male figure carrying
  a substantial cardboard box jumped out. The man deposited the box outside
  the Embassy's protective railings, near a gate, then ran back to the car,
  which sped away.
  A plainclothes guard who had seen it happen sounded an alarm and all
  exits from the embassy, which was built like a fortress, were temporarily
  closed. Meanwhile a bomb disposal squad from the Peruvian armed forces
  was summoned to help.
  When tests revealed that the box contained no explosives, it was opened
  carefully, revealing the bloodstained, decapitated head of an elderly
  man, probably in his seventies. Alongside the head was a wallet
  containing a U.S. Social Security card, a Florida driver's license
  complete with photo, and other documents that identified the partial
  remains as those of Angus McMullen Sloane.
  At the time the Lima incident occurred, a Chicago Tribune reporter
  happened to be inside the embassy. He stayed close to
 512        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ensuing developments and was the first to file a story that included the
 victim's name. The Tribune report was quickly picked up by wire services,
 TV, radio and other newspapers, first in the United States, then
 throughout the world.

                12

 The plan to attempt a rescue at Nueva Esperanza was complete.
  On Friday after-noon, final details were settled, the last equipment
  assembled. At dawn on Saturday, Partridge and his crew would fly from Lima,
  bound for the jungle in San Martin Province, near the Huallaga River.
  Since late Wednesday, on learning of the prisoners' location, Partridge had
  fretted impatiently. His first inclination had been to leave at once, but
  Ferndndez Pabur's arguments plus his own experience had persuaded him to
  delay.
  "The jungle can be a friend; it can also be an enemy," Fernfindez pointed
  out. "You cannot stroll into it, the way you would visit another part of
  town. We will be in the jungle at least one night, perhaps two, and there
  are certain things we must have with us for survival. I must also choose
  our air transport carefully-using someone reliable we can trust. Flying us
  in, then returning to take us out will require coordination and good
  timing. We need two days to prepare; even that is barely enough."
  The "we" and "our" made clear from the beginning that the resourceful
  stringer-fixer intended to be part of the expedition. "You will need me,"
  he stated simply. "I have been in the Selva many times. I know its ways."
  When Partridge felt obliged to point out there would be danger, Pabur
  shrugged. "All life is a risk. In my country nowadays, getting up in the
  morning has become one."
  Air transport was their principal concern. After disappear-            The Evening News     513

 ing for part of Thursday morning, Femdndez returned and, collecting
 Partridge and Rita, took them to a one-story brick building not far from
 Lima's Airport. The building contained several small offices. They
 approached one which had on its door ALSA-AEROLIBER'FAD S.A. Femindez
 entered first and introduced his companions to the owner of the charter
 flight service, also its chief pilot, Oswaldo Zileri.
  Zileri, in his mid to late thirties, was good-looking and clean-cut, with
  a trim, athletic build. His attitude was guarded, but businesslike and
  direct. He told Partridge, "I understand you intend to pay a surprise
  visit to Nueva Esperanza, and that is all I need, or wish, to know."
  "That's fine," Partridge said, "except we hope to have three more
  passengers flying back than we will have going out."
  "The airplane you are chartering is a Cheyenne II. There will be two
  pilots and room for seven passengers. How you fill those seven seats is
  your affair. Now, may we talk money?"
  "Talk it with me," Rita said. "What's your price?"
  "You will pay in U.S. dollars?" Zileri queried.
  Rita nodded.
  "Then the regular price on each round trip will be one thousand four
  hundred dollars. If there is extra time at destination, required for
  circling, there will be an additional charge. As well, for each landing
  in the vicinity of Nueva Esperanzawhich is drug country controlled by
  Sendero Luminoso-there will be a special danger fee of five thousand
  dollars. Before we leave on Saturday, I would like a six-thousand-dollar
  cash deposit."
  "You'll have it," Rita said, "and if you write all that out, making two
  copies, I'll sign, and keep one."
  "It will be done before you leave. Do you wish to know some details of
  my air service?"
  "I suppose we should," Partridge said politely.
  With a touch of pride, Zileri recited an obviously standard spiel. "The
  Cheyenne 11-we have three-is twin-engined and propeller-driven. It is a
  remarkably reliable aircraft and can land in a short space-important in
  the jungle. All our pilots, including myself, are American-trained. We
  know most regions,
 514        ARTHUR HAILEY

 of Peru well, also the local flight controllers, civil and military, and
 they are used to us. Incidentally, on this flight I will be piloting you
 myself."
  "All that's fine," Pai-tridge acknowledged. "What we also need is some
  advice."
  "Ferridndez has told me." Zileri went to a chart table where a large-scale
  map of the southern portion of San Martin Province was spread open. The
  others joined him.
  "I've assumed you will want to land sufficiently far 'from Nueva Esperanza
  so your arrival will not be noted."
  Partridge nodded. "Assumption right."
  "Then, on the outward journey from Lima, I recommend landing here." With
  a pencil Zileri indicated a point on the map.
  "Isn't that a roadway?"
  "Yes, the main jungle highway, but there is little traffic, often none. But
  at several points like this one it's been widened and resurfaced by drug
  shippers so that planes can land. I've landed there before."
  Partridge wondered for what purpose. Conveying drugs, or people who dealt
  in them? He had heard there were few Peru air operators who were not
  involved with the drug trade, even if only in peripheral ways.
  "Before we go in to land," Zileri continued, "we will make sure the highway
  is Pot in use and there is no one on the ground. From that poirTL a rough
  trail goes close to Nueva Esperanza."
  Ferndadez intet-Jected, "I have a good map where the trail is marked."
  "Now about your return with extra passengers," Zjieri said. "Ferndndez and
  I have discussed this and have a suggested plan."
  "Go ahead," Partridge told him.
  The discussion continued, decisions and salient facts emerging.
  Three possible picku-) points existed for the return journey. First, the
  bighway where the initial landing was intended. Second, Sion airstrip
  which, after 'leaving Nueva Esperanza, could
            The Evening News     515

 be reached by river, plus a three-mile overland journey. Third, a very
 small landing strip, used by drug traffickers and known to few people,
 midway between the two; that, too, was reached mainly by river.
  The reason for options was, as Fernindez explained, "We do not know what
  will happen at Nueva Esperanza, or which way will be clear, or best, for
  us to leave by."
  The airplane making the pickup could easily pass over all three places
  and respond to a signal from the ground. Partridge's group would carry
  a flare gun with green and red flares. A green flare would mean: Land
  normally, everything is clear,- a red flare: Land as quickly as possible,
  we are in danger!
  If close-in rifle or machine-gun fire was observed from the air, it was
  agreed that the airplane would not land, but would return to Lima.
  Since it was not known exactly when the return flight would be required,
  an airplane would be sent to fly over the area, first on Sunday morning
  at 8 A.m. and, failing any contact between ground and air, again on
  Monday at the same time. After that, any action would be decided by Rita
  who would remain in Lima during the expedition and in touch with New
  York, an arrangement Partridge considered essential.
  At the end of operational planning, a contract was signed by Rita, on
  behalf of CBA News, and by Oswaldo Zileri, after which Zileri and the CBA
  trio formally shook hands. Looking at Partridge directly, the pilot said,
  "We shall keep our part of the agreement and do our best for you."
  Partridge had an instinct that he would.

  After making the air arrangements, and returning to Cesar's Hotel,
  Partridge held a meeting in his suite with all. the CBA group members to
  decide who would make the Nueva Esperanza journey. Three definite
  selections were: Partridge; Minh Van Canh, since some visual record was
  essential; and Fernindez Pabur. Allowing for three extra passengers re-
  turning, this left a fourth place open.
  The choice was between Bob Watson, the TV-video editor;
 516        ARTHUR HAILEY

 the sound man, Ken O'Hara; or Tomis, the mostly silent bodyguard.
  Ferndndez favored Torads and had argued earlier, "He is strong and can
  fight." Bob Watson, smoking one of his pungent cigars, urged, "Take me,
  Harry! In a brawl, I kin take care of myself. Found that out in Miami
  riots." OHara simply said, "I want to go very much."
  In the end, Partridge chose O'Hara because he was a known quantity, had
  shown he could keep his head in a tense situation and was resourceful.
  Also, while they would not be carrying sound equipment-Minh would use a
  Betacam incorporating sound-Ken O'Hara had an instinctive way with anything
  mechanical, an asset that might prove useful.
  Partridge left Ferndndez to organize equipment and under his direction the
  items were accumulated in the hotel: lightweight hammocks, mosquito netting
  and repellent, dried foods sufficient for two days, filled water bottles,
  water sterilizing tablets, machetes, small compasses, binoculars, some
  plastic sheeting. Since each person would carry his own requirements, using
  a backpack, a balance was struck between necessity and weight.
  Ferndndez also urged that each carry a gun and Partridge agreed. It was a
  fact of TV life that correspondents and crews overseas sometimes went
  armed, though keeping weapons out of sight. Networks neither condoned nor
  discouraged the practice, leaving it to the judgment of people on the spot.
  In this case the need seemed overwhelming and was aided by the fact that
  all four who would be going had had experience with firearms at various
  points in their lives.
  Partridge decided he would stay with his nine-millimeter Browning, with a
  silencer. He also had a Fairbum commando "killing" knife, given him by a
  major in the British SAS.
  Minh, who would have camera equipment to carry as well as a weapon, wanted
  something powerful but light; Ferndndez announced he could obtain an
  Israeli Uzi submachine gun. O'Hara said he would take whatever was
  available; it turned out to be a U.S. M-16 automatic rifle. Apparently any
  weaponry was purchasable in Lima, with no questions asked of those who had
  the money.
            The Evening News     517

  Since Wednesday, when he had learned that Nueva Esperanza was the target,
  Partridge had asked himself. Should he inform the Peruvian authorities,
  specifically the anti-terrorism police? On Thursday he had even gone back
  for advice to Sergio Hurtado, the radio broadcaster who had warned him not
  to seek help from the armed forces and police. During their meeting on
  Partridge's first day in Peru, Sergio had said: "Avoid them as allies
  because they have ceased to be trustworthy, if they ever were. When it
  comes to murder and mayhem, they are no better than Sendero and certainly
  as ruthless. "
  Speaking in mutually agreed confidence, Partridge informed Sergio of the
  latest developments and asked if the advice was still the same?
  "If anything, stronger," Sergio answered. "In exactly the kind of situation
  you are looking at, the government forces are notorious for going in with
  maximum firepower. They take no chances. They wipe out everyone, innocent
  as well as guilty, and ask questions after. Then, when accused of killing
  people wrongfully, they'll say, 'How could we tell the difference? It was
  kill or be killed.' "
  Partridge was reminded that General Rafil Ortiz had said much the same
  thing.
  Sergio added, "At the same time, going in as you plan, you are taking your
  own life in your hands."
  "I know," Partridge admitted. "But I see no other way."
  It was early afternoon. For the past few minutes, Sergio had been fidgeting
  with a paper on his desk. Now he asked, "Before you came here, Harry, had
  you received any bad news? I mean today."
  Partridge shook his head.
  "Then I'm sorry to give you some." Picking up the paper, Sergio passed it
  across. "This came in shortly before you arrived."
  "This" was a Reuters news dispatch describing the receipt of Nicholas
  Sloane's fingers at CBA, New York, and his father's broken-hearted grief.
  "Oh, Christ!" Partridge was suddenly overwhelmed by an- 518        ARTHUR HAILEY

 guish and self-reproach. Why, he grieved, had his own planned action not
 been undertaken sooner?
  "I know what you are thinking," Sergio said. "But there is no way you could
  have prevented this. Not with limited time and the little information that
  you had."
  Which was true, Partridge acknowledged mentally. But he knew that questions
  about his own pace of progress would haunt him for a long time.
  "While you are here, Harry," Sergio was saying, "there's something else.
  Isn't your company, CBA, owned by Globanic Industries?"
  "Yes, it is."
  The broadcaster slid a desk drawer open and from it removed several clipped
  sheets. "I obtain my information from many sources and it may surprise you
  that one is Sendero Luminoso. They hate me, but use me. Sendero has
  sympathizers and informers in many places and one of them sent this
  recently, hoping I would broadcast it."
  Partridge accepted the sheets and began reading.
  "As you can see," Sergio said, "it purports to be an agreement between
  Globanic Financial Services-another subsidiary of Globanic: Industries-and
  the Peruvian Government. The agreement is what's known financially as a
  debt-to-equity swap."
  Partridge shook his head. "Not my specialty, I'm afraid."
  "But not all that complicated either. As part of the agreement, Globanic
  will receive enormous amounts of land, including two major resort
  locations, for what can only be called a giveaway price. In return, some
  of Peru's international debt, which has been 'securitized' by Globanic will
  be reduced."
  "Is it all honest and legal?"
  Sergio shrugged. "Let's say it's borderline, though probably legal. More
  significant is that it's an exceedingly rich deal for Globanic, a very poor
  one for the people of Peru."
  "If you feel that way," Partridge asked, "why haven't you broadcast it?"
  "So far, two reasons. I never accept anything from Sendero at face value,
  and wanted to check how accurate the informa-
              The Evening News     519

 tion is. I have, and it's okay. Another thing: For Globanic to get
 anything as super-sweet as this, someone in government has been paid off
 handsomely, or will be. I'm working on that and intend to do a broadcast
 next week."
  Partridge touched the pages he was holding. "Any chance I can have a
  copy?"
  "Keep that one. I have another."

  During the next day, Friday, Partridge decided one other matter needed
  checking before Saturday's departure. Had anyone else received the
  telephone number which had led the CBA group to the Huancavelica Street
  apartment, formerly occupied by the ex-doctor known as Baudelio, and now
  by Dolores? If so, it would mean that someone else could know the
  significance of Nueva Esperanza.
  As Don Kettering had explained by phone on Wednesday evening, the FBI had
  access to the Hackensack cellular telephones immediately after their
  discovery by CBA News. Therefore it seemed likely the FBI would check the
  calls made on those phones and learn of the Lima number Kettering had
  given Partridge. From that point, it was possible the FBI had passed the
  information to the CIA-though not certain, because rivalry between the
  two agencies was notorious. Alternatively, the FBI might have asked a
  Peruvian Government department to have the number checked.
  At Partridge's request, Ferndndez paid a second visit to Dolores on
  Friday afternoon. He found her drunk, but coherent enough to assure him
  that no one else had been to the apartment making inquiries. So, for
  whatever reason, the subject of the phone number had not been pursued by
  anyone but CBA.
  Finally, that same afternoon, through Peruvian radio, they learned the
  grim and tragic news of Angus Sloane's death and discovery of his severed
  head at the American Embassy in Lima.
  Once the news was known, Partridge was quickly on the scene with Minh Van
  Canh and sent a report via satellite for the National Evening News that
  evening. By that time, too, other
 520        ARTHUR HAILEY

 network crews and print-press reporters had arrived, but Partridge managed
 to avoid conversation with them.
  The fact was, the horrible demise of Crawf's father weighed heavily on
  his conscience, as had Nicky's severed fingers. To the extent that he had
  come to Peru hoping to save all three hostages, he had already failed,
  Partridge told himself.
  Later, after doing what was needed, he went back to Cesar's Hotel and
  spent the evening lying on his bed, awake, lonely and dejected.
  Next morning, he was up more than an hour before dawn, his intention to
  complete two tasks. One was to compose a simple, handwritten will, the
  other to draft a telegram. Soon after, on the way to the airport in the
  rented station wagon, he had Rita witness the will and left it with her.
  He also asked her to send the telegram, which was addressed to Oakland,
  California.
  They also discussed the Globanic-Peru debt-to-equity agreement Partridge
  had learned about from Sergio Hurtado. He told Rita, "When you've read
  it, I suppose we should let Les Chippingharn see this copy. But it has
  nothing to do with why we're here and I don't plan to use the
  information, even though Sergio will next week." He smiled, "I suppose
  that's the least we can do for Globanic since they butter our bread."

  The Cheyenne 11 aircraft took off from Lima in the still, pre-dawn air
  without incident. Seventy minutes later the plane reached the portion of
  jungle highway where Partridge, Minh, O'Hara and Fern4ndez were to
  disembark.
  By now there was ample light to see the ground below. The highway was
  deserted: no cars, trucks or any other sign of human activity. On either
  side stretched miles of jungle covering the land like a vast green quilt.
  Turning briefly away from the controls, the pilot, Oswaldo Zileri, called
  back to his passengers, "We're going in. Be ready to get out fast. I
  don't want to stay on the ground for a second longer than necessary."
  Then, with a steep, fast-descending turn, he lined up over the highway,
  touched down on its wider portion, and stopped after a surprisingly
  short. landing run. As quickly as they could,
            The Evening News     521

 the four passengers tumbled out, taking their backpacks and equipment and,
 moments later, the Cheyenne II taxied into position and took off.
  "Let's get under cover fast!" Partridge urged the others, and they
  headed for the jungle trail.

                13
                  ur

 Unknown to Harry Partridge during his crowded day on Friday, a crisis
 concerning him erupted in New York.
  While breakfasting at home on Friday morning, Margot Lloyd-Mason received
  a telephone message that Theodore Elliott wished to see her "immediately"
  at Globanic Industries' Pleasantville headquarters. After inquiry,
  "immediately" translated to a 10 A.m. appointment. It would be the Globanic
  chairman's first of the day, a secretary at Pleasantville informed Margot.
  Margot then called one of her own two secretaries at home and gave
  instructions to cancel or reschedule all her morning appointments.
  She had no idea what Theo Elliott wanted.
  At Globanic headquarters, Margot was kept waiting several minutes in the
  senior executives' elegant outer lounge where, unknowingly, she occupied
  the same chair used only four days earlier by the Baltimore Star reporter
  Glen Dawson.
  When Margot entered the chairman's office, Elliott wasted no time with
  preliminaries, but demanded, "Why the hell aren't you keeping better
  control of your goddamned news people in Peru?"
  Startled, Margot asked, "What kind of control? We've been getting
  compliments about our coverage there. And ratings are-"
  "I'm talking about dismal, depressing, downbeat reports." Elliott slammed
  a hand heavily on his desk. "Last night I re-
   522        ARTHUR HAILEY

 ceived a call direct from President Castafieda in Lima. He claims everything
 CBA has been putting out about Peru is negative and damaging. He's mad as
 hell with your network, and so am F'
  Margot said reasonably, "The other networks and the New York Times have
  been taking much the same line we have, Theo."
  "Don't tell me about others! I'm talking about usl Besides, President
  Castafieda seems to think what's happening right now is that CBA sets the
  pace and others are following. He told me so."
  They were both standing. Elliott, glowering, had not asked Margot to sit
  down. She asked, "Is there anything specific?"
  "You're damn right there is!" The Globanic chairman pointed to a half-dozen
  videocassettes on his desk. "After the President's call last night I sent
  one of my people to get tapes of your evening news programs for this week.
  Now I've seen them all, I can see what Castafieda means; they're full of
  doom and gloom-how bad things are in Peru. Nothing positive! Nothing saying
  Peru has a great future ahead, or that it's a wonderful place to go for a
  vacation, or that those lousy Shining Path rebels will be beaten very
  soon!"
  "There's a strong consensus they won't be, Theo."
  Elliott stormed on as if he had not heard. "I can understand why President
  Castafieda is furious-something that Globanic can't afford to have happen,
  and you know why. I warned you about that, but you obviously weren't
  listening. Another thing -Fossie Xenos is fuming too. He even thinks you
  may be jeopardizing, deliberately, his big debt-to-equity deal."
  "That's nonsense, and I'm sure you know it. But perhaps we can do something
  to improve what's happening." Margot was thinking quickly, realizing the
  situation was more serious than she had thought at first. Her own future in
  Globanic, she realized, could easily be at stake.
  "I'll tell you exactly what you'll do." Elliott's voice had become steely.
  "I want that meddling reporter-Partridge is his name-brought back on the
  next airplane and fired."
            The Evening News     523

  "We can certainly bring him back. I'm less sure about firing him."
  "Fired, I said! Are you having trouble hearing this morning, Margot? I
  want the bastard out of CBA so that, first thing Monday, I can call the
  President of Peru and say, 'Look! We threw the troublemaker out. We're
  sorry we sent him to your country. It was a bad mistake, but won't happen
  again."'
  Foreseeing difficulties for herself at CBA, Margot said, "Theo, I have
  to point out that Partridge has been with the network a long time. It
  must be close to twenty-five years and he has a good record."
  Elliott permitted himself a sly smile. "Then give the son of a bitch a
  gold watch. I don't care. Just get rid of him, so I can make that phone
  call Monday. And I'll warn you about something else, Margot."
  "What's that, Theo?"
  Elliott retreated to his desk and sat down behind it. He waved Margot to
  a chair as he said, "The danger of thinking writers or reporters are
  something special. They aren't, although they sometimes believe they are
  and get exaggerated ideas about their own importance. 'The fact is,
  there's never a shortage of writers. Cut one down, two more spring up
  like
 weeds."
  Warming to his theme, Elliott continued, "It's people like me and yoa
  ~,vho reallycount in this world, Margot. We are the doers!-ibe ones who
  make things happen every day. That's why we can buy writers whenever we
  want and-never forget this!-they're two-a-penny, as the English say. So
  when you're through with some worn-out hack like Partridge, pick up a new
  one-some kid fresh out of college-the way you would a cabbage. "
  Margot smiled; it was evident that the worst of her superior's wrath had
  passed. "It's an interesting point of view."
  "Apply it. And one more thing."
  "I'm listering."
  "Don't think that people at Globanic, including me, are not aware how you
  and Leon Ironwood and Fossie Xenos are jockeying for position, each of
  you hoping one day to sit where I am
 524        ARTHUR BAILEY

 now. Well, I'll tell you Margot, as between you and Fossiethis morning
 Fossie is several noses out in front."
  The chairman waved a hand dismissingly. "That's all. Call me later today
  when the Peru thing is all wrapped up."

  It was late morning when Margot, back in her office at Stonehenge, sent
  a message to Leslie Chippingharn. The news president was to report to her
  "immediately."
  She had not appreciated being sent for this morning, preferring to do the
  summoning herself She found herself pleased at the current reversal of
  that situation.
  Somethin.- else Margot had not liked was Elliott's reference to Fossie
  Xenos as being "several noses out in front." If that relative position
  was true, she thought, she would revise it promptly, Margot had no
  intention of having her own career plans disrupted by what she was
  already regarding as a minor organizational issue, capable of being
  quickly and decisively resolved.
  Therefore, when Chippingham appeared shortly after noon she came as
  speedily to the point as Theo Elliott had with her.
  "I don't want any discussion about this," Margot stated. "I'm simply
  giving you an order."
  She continued, "The employment of Harry Partridge is to be terminated at
  once. I want him out of CBA by tomorrow. I'm aware he has a contract and
  you'll do whatever we have to under it. Also, he's to be out of Peru,
  preferably tomorrow but no later than Sunday. If that means chartering
  a special flight, so be it. "
  Chippingbam stared at her, open-mouthed and unbelieving. At length,
  having trouble finding words, he said, "You can't be serious!"
  Margot told him firmly, "I am serious, and I said no discussion."
  "The hell with that!" Chippingham's voice was raised emotionally. "I'm
  not standing by, seeing one of our best correspondents who's served CBA
  well for twenty-odd years, thrown out without any reason."
  "The reason is none of your concern."
            The Evening News     525

  "I'm the news president, aren't I? Margot, I appeal to you! What's Harry
  done, for chrissakes? Is it something bad? If so, I want to know about
  it."
  "If you must know, it's a question of his type of coverage."
  "Which is the absolute best! Honest. Knowledgeable. Unprejudiced. Ask
  anybody!"
  "I don't need to. In any case, not everyone agrees with
 YOU."
  Chippingham regarded her suspiciously. "This is Globanic's work, isn't
  it?" Intuition came to him. "It's your friend, that cold-blooded tyrant
  Theodore Elliott!"
  "Be carefull" she warned him, and decided the conversation had gone on
  long enough.
  "I don't plan to do any more explaining," Margot said coldly, "but I'll
  tell you this: If my order has not been carried out by the end of
  business today, then you are out of a job yourself, and tomorrow I'll
  appoint someone else acting news president and have them do it."
  "You really would, wouldn't you?" He was looking at her with a mixture
  of wonder and hatred.
  "Make no mistake about it-yes. And if you decide to stay employed, report
  to me by the end of this afternoon that what I wanted has been done. Now
  get out of here."
 I After Chippingham had gone, Margot realized with satisfaction that, when
 necessary, she could be as tough as Theo Elliott.

  Back at CBA News headquarters, knowing he was procrastinating, Les
  Chippingharn attended to several routine matters before instructing his
  secretary, shortly before 3 P.m., that he was not to be disturbed and to
  hold telephone calls until further notice. He needed time to think.
  Closing his office door from inside, he sat down in the conference area
  away from his desk, facing one of his favorite paintings-a desolate
  Andrew Wyeth landscape. But today Chippingham barely saw the painting;
  all he was aware of was the crucial decision he faced.
  He knew he had reached a crisis in his life.
 526        ARTHUR HAILEY

  If he did as Margot had ordered and fired Harry Partridge without
  apparent cause, he would forfeit his self-respect. He would have done
  something shameful and unjust to a decent, highly skilled and respected
  human being, a friend and colleague, merely to satisfy another person's
  whim. Who that other person was and whatever was the whim, Chippingham
  didn't know, though he was sure that he and others would find out
  eventually. Meanwhile, all he was certain of was that Theodore Elliott
  was somehow involved-a thrust which, judging by Margot's reaction, had
  gone home.
  Could Chippingham live with having done all that? Applying the standards
  he had tried to live his life by, he ought not to be able to.
  On the other hand-and there was another side-if he, Les Chippingham,
  didn't do it, someone else would. Margot had made that clear. And she
  would have no trouble finding someone. There were too many ambitious
  people around, including some in CBA News, for it not to happen.
  So Harry Partridge was going down the drain anyway-at least at CBA.
  That was an important point: at CBA.
  When word got around, as it quickly would, that Harry Partridge was
  leaving CBA and was available, he need not be unemployed for fifteen
  minutes. Other networks would fall over themselves vying for his
  services. Harry was a star, a "Big Foot"-with a reputatiop as a nice guy,
  too, which didn't harm him.
  Nothing, absolutely nothing, would keep Harry Partridge down. In fact,
  with a new contract at a fresh network he would probably be better off.
  But what about a fired and fallen news president? That was a totally
  different story, and Chippingham knew what he was facing if Margot kept
  her -word-as he knew she would-assuming he did not do as she wished.
  As news president, Chippingham had a contract too, and tinder it would
  receive roughly a million dollars in severance payments, which sounded
  a lot but actually wasn't. A substantial amount would disappear in taxes.
  After that, because he
            The Evening News     527

 was deeply in debt, his creditors would attach most of the remainder. And
 whatever was left, the lawyers handling Stasia's divorce would scrutinize
 covetously. So in the end, if he was left with enough for dinner for two
 at the Four Seasons, he would be surprised.
  Then there was the question of another job. Unlike Partridge, he would
  not be sought out by other networks. One reason was, there could only be
  one news president at a network and he had heard no rumor of an opening
  anywhere else. Apart from that, networks wanted news presidents who were
  successes, not someone dismissed in doubtful circumstances; there were
  enough living ex-news presidents around to make that last point clear.
  All of which meant that he would have to settle for a lesser job, almost
  certainly with a lot less money, and Stasia would still want some of
  that.
  The prospect was daunting.
  Unless-unless he did what Margot wanted.
  If he expressed in dramatic terms what he was now doing, Chippingham
  thought, he was peeling away the layers of his soul, looking inside and
  not liking what he saw.
  Yet a conclusion was inescapable: There were moments in life when
  self-preservation came first.
  I hate to do this to you, Harry, he attested silently, but I don't have
  any choice.

  Fifteen minutes later, Chippingham read over the letter he
 had typed personally on an old, mechanical Underwood he
 kept-for old times' sake --- on a table in his office.
  It began:

 Dear Harry.-
   It is with great regret I have to inform you that your employment by
   CBA News is terminated, effective immediately.
   Under the terms of your contract with CBA . . .
 528        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Chippingham knew, because he had had occasion to review it recently, that
  Partridge's contract had a "pay-or-play" clause, which meant that while the
  network could terminate employment, it was obligated to pay full benefits
  until the contract's end. In Partridge's case, this was a year away.
  Also in the same contract was a "non-compete" clause under which Partridge,
  in accepting the "pay-or-play" arrangement, agreed not to work for another
  network for at least six months.
  In his letter, Chippingham waived the "non-compete" clause, leaving
  Partridge with his benefits intact but free- to accept other employment at
  once. Chippingham believed that in the circumstances, it was the least he
  could do for Harry.
  He intended the letter to go by fax machine to Lima. There was a machine
  in his outer office and he would use it himself He had decided earlier that
  he could not bring himself to telephone.
  About to sign what he had written, Chippingham heard a knock at his office
  door and saw the door open. Instinctively, he turned the letter face down.
  Crawford Sloane entered. He was holding a press wire printout in his hand.
  When he spoke, his voice was choked. Tears were coursing down his cheeks.
  "Les," Sloane said, "I had to see you. This just came in."
  He proffered the printout which Chippingharn took and read. It repeated a
  Chicago Tribune report from Lima. describing the finding of Angus Sloane's
  dismembered head.
  "Oh, Christ! Crawf, I'm . . ." Unable to finish the words, Chippingharn
  shook his head, then held out his arms and, in a spontaneous gesture, the
  two embraced.
  As they separated, Sloane said, "Don't say anything more. I'm not sure I
  can handle it. I can't do the news tonight. I told them outside to call
  Teresa Toy . . ."
  "Forget everything, Crawf!" Chippingham told him. "We'll take care of it."
  "No!" Sloane shook his head. "There's something else, something I must do.
  I want a Learjet to Lima. While there's still a chance . . . for Jessica
  and Nicky . . . I must be
            The Evening News     529

 there." Sloane paused, struggling for control, then added, "I'll go to
 Larchmont first, then to Teterboro."
  Chippingham said doubtfully, "Are you sure, Crawf? Is this wise?"
  "I'm going, Les," Sloane said. "Don't try to stop me. If CBA won't pay
  for an airplane, I will."
  "That won't be necessary. I'll order the Lear," Chippingham said.
  Later, he did. It would leave Teterboro that night and be in Peru by
  morning.

  Because of the sudden, tragic news of Angus Sloane, Chippingham's letter
  to Partridge did not get signed and faxed to Lima until late that
  afternoon. After his secretary had left, Chippingham sent it to a fax
  number he had for Entel Peru, from where it would be delivered to the CBA
  booth in the same building. He added a note to the transmission, asking
  for the letter to be placed in an envelope addressed to "Mr. Harry
  Partridge" and marked "Personal."
  Chippingham had considered informing Crawford Sloane about the letter,
  then decided Crawf had had all the shocks he could handle in a single
  week. He knew the letter would outrage Crawf, as well as Partridge, and
  expected indignant telephone calls with demands for explanations. But
  that would be another day and Chippingham would have to cope with it as
  best he could.
  Finally, Chippingham telephoned Margot Lloyd-Mason who was still in her
  office at 6:15 P.m. He told her first, "I have done what you asked," then
  gave her the news about Crawford Sloane's father.
  "I heard," she said, "and I'm sorry. About the other, you cut it fine and
  I was beginning to think you wouldn't call. But thank you."
 530        ARTHUR BAILEY

                14

 Away from the highway where the Cheyenne 11 had landed, the trek through the
 jungle for Partridge and the other three was difficult and slow.
  The trail-if it could be called that-was often overgrown and frequently
  disappeared entirely. Faced with a dense and tangled mass of vegetation,
  it was necessary to hack a way through using machetes, hoping for a clearer
  space beyond. Tall trees formed a canopy above their heads, under an over-
  cast sky which hinted of rain to come. Many trees had grotesquely twisted
  trunks, thick bark and leathery leaves; Partridge had read somewhere that
  eight thousand known species of trees existed in Peru. At lower levels,
  bamboos, ferns, lianas and parasitic plants were everywhere intertwined-the
  result described by the same source as "green hell."
  "Hell" was appropriate today because of the sweltering, steamy heat from
  which all four men were already suffering. Sweat streamed from every part
  of them, their condition made worse by swarms of insects. At the beginning
  they had soaked themselves with mosquito repellent, applying more along the
  way, but as Ken O'Hara put it, "The little devils seem to like the stuff."
  Fortunately, when contact with the trail was reestablished, there were
  areas where overhead shade from closely growing trees had made ground
  growth less prolific, therefore it was easier to move ahead. It was obvious
  that without the trail, progress would be nil.
  "This route isn't used much," Ferndndez pointed out, "and that's to our
  advantage."
  Their objective was to approach Nueva Esperanza, but to stay well clear of
  it while locating a position on higher ground. From there, hidden by the
  jungle, they would observe the ham-
              The Evening News     531

 let, mainly during daylight hours. Then, depending on what was seen and
 learned, they would devise a plan.
  The entire surrounding area for a hundred or more square miles, broken
  only by the Huallaga River, was dense jungle over an undulating plain.
  But the large-scale contour map acquired by Ferndndez showed several
  hills near their objective, one of which might work as an observation
  post. Nueva Esperanza itself was about nine miles from their present
  position-a formidable distance under these conditions.
  One thing Partridge had memorized was the second message Jessica managed
  to convey while making her videotape recording. As reported to him by
  Crawford Sloane, in a sealed letter which Rita hand-carried to Peru,
  Jessica had scratched her left earlobe to mean: Security here is
  sometimes lax. An attack from outside might succeed. Sometime soon that
  information would be put to the test.
  Meanwhile, they labored on through the jungle.
  It was well into the afternoon, when everyone was near exhaustion, that
  Ferndndez warned them Nueva Esperanza might be near. "I think we have
  covered about seven miles," he said; then cautioned, "we must not be
  seen. If we hear sounds of anyone coming, we must melt into the jungle
  quickly."
  Looking at dense brush and thorns on either side, Minh Van Canh said,
  "Makes sense, but let's hope we don't have to."
  Soon after FernAndez's warning, the going became easier and several other
  trails crisscrossed their own. Femdndez explained that this whole area
  of slopes and hills was laced with coca fields, which at other times of
  the year would be bustling with activity. During a four-to-six-month
  growing season, coca bushes needed only minor care, so most growers lived
  elsewhere, coming back and occupying hilltop shacks during harvest time.
  -
  Using his contour map and compass, Ferndndez continued to guide the other
  three; at the same time, the extra effort now required in walking told
  them they were gradually moving uphill. After another hour they entered
  a clearing and, beyond it, could see a shack amid jungle trees.
  By now it had become evident to Partridge that FernAndez
 532        ARTHUR BAILEY

 knew the area better than he had admitted earlier. When questioned, the
 stringer-fixer conceded, "I have been here several times before."
  Inwardly, Partridge sighed. Was Fernindez one more among the army of
  pseudo-upright people who benefited in back-door, insidious ways from the
  ubiquitous cocaine trade? Latin America, and the Caribbean especially, were
  full of such pretenders, many in high places.
  As if sensing the thought, Femdndez added, "I was here one time for a
  'dog-and-pony show' put on by our government for your State Department.
  There was a visitor-your Attorney General, I think-and the media were
  brought along. I was one of them."
  Despite his reaction a moment earlier, Partridge smiled at the
  "dog-and-pony show" description. It was one applied contemptuously by
  reporters when a foreign government staged an anti-drug performance
  designed to impress a visiting American delegation. Partridge could imagine
  the scene here: An "invasion" by helicopter-borne troops who would uproot
  and burn a few acres of coca plants and destroy a processing lab or two
  with dynamite. The visitors would praise the host government's anti-drug
  efforts, either not knowing or ignoring the fact that thousands of
  coca-growing areas and dozens of other labs nearby remained untouched.
  Next day the visitors' photos would be in U.S. newspapers, accompanied by
  their approving statements, the process repeated on TV. And
  reporters-knowing they had been part of a charade, but unable to pass it
  up because others were recording it-would swallow hard and nurse their
  shame.
  It had happened in Peru, which was neither a dictatorship nor communist
  but, Partridge thought, might soon be one or the other.
  Fernindez inspected the clearing,they had reached, including the hut,
  satisfying himself that no one was there. Then he led the way eastward into
  the jungle again, but only for a little way, the others halting when
  Femdndez cautioned them with a signal. A moment later he parted a cluster
  of ferns and motioned the others to look. One by one they did so, observing
  a
            The Evening News     533

 collection of dilapidated buildings about half a mile away and two hundred
 feet below. There were two dozen or so shacks located on a riverbank. A
 muddy path led from the buildings to a rough wooden jetty and the river,
 where a motley collection of boats was moored.
  Partridge said softly, "Nice going, everybody!" He added with relief, "I
  guess we,found Nueva Esperanza."

  After having deferred to Fernindez on the trail, Harry Partridge now
  resumed command.
  "We don't have a lot of daylight left," he told the others. The sun was
  already near the horizon, the journey having taken far longer than
  expected. "I want to observe as much as possible before dark. Minh, bring
  the other binoculars and join me forward. Ferndndez and Ken ' pick a sentry
  post and one of you keep watch to see if we're approached from behind. Work
  that out between you, and if someone does show, call me quickly."
  Approaching the strip of jungle, which prevented them from being seen from
  below, Partridge dropped to his belly and wriggled forward, carrying the
  binoculars he had brought. Minh, beside him, did the same, both stopping
  when they could see clearly but were still shielded by surrounding foliage.
  Moving the binoculars slowly, Partridge studied the scene below.
  There was almost no activity. At the jetty, two men were working on a boat,
  stripping an outboard engine. A woman left one shack, emptied a pail of
  slops behind it, and returned inside. A man emerged from the jungle, walked
  toward another house and entered. Two scrawny dogs were clawing their way
  into an open garbage pile. Other garbage littered the area. Viewed overall,
  Nueva Esperanza appeared to be a jungle slum.
  Partridge began studying the buildings individually, letting the binoculars
  linger several minutes on each. Presumably the prisoners were being held
  in one of them, but no clue was evident as to which. It was already
  obvious, he thought, that at least a full day's observation would be needed
  and any idea of a rescue attempt tonight and departure by air tomorrow
  morning
 534        ARTHUR HAILEY

 was clearly out of the question. He settled down, simply to wait and watch
 while the light diminished.
  As always in the tropics when the sun receded, darkness followed quickly.
  In the houses a few dim lights had come on and now the last vestiges of
  day were almost gone. Partridge lowered his binoculars and wiped his
  eyes, which were strained after more than an hour of concentration on the
  scene below. There was little else, he believed, that they would learn
  today.
  At that moment Minh touched his arm, gesturing toward the huts below.
  Partridge picked up his binoculars and peered again. At once he saw
  movement in the now dim light-the figure of a man walking down the path
  between two groups of houses. In contrast to other movements they had
  seen, this man's walk seemed purposeful. Something else was different;
  Partridge strained to see . . . now he had it! The man was carrying a
  rifle, slung over his shoulder. Partridge and Minh both followed the
  man's movement with their binoculars.
  Away from the other buildings, standing separately, was a single shack.
  Partridge had seen it earlier, but there had been nothing special to
  attract attention. Now the man reached the building and disappeared
  inside. There was an opening in the front wall and dim light filtered
  through.
  Still they continued watching, and for a few minutes nothing happened.
  Then, from the same shack a figure emerged and walked away. Even in the
  faded light two things could be distinguished: This was a different man
  and he, too, was carrying a gun.
  Could it be, Partridge wondered excitedly, that what they had just
  witnessed was a changing of the prisoners' guard? More confirmation was
  needed and they would have to keep observing. But the probability was
  strong that the shack standing alone was where Jessica and Nicky Sloane
  were being held.
  He tried not to let his mind dwell on the likelihood that, until a day
  or two before, Angus Sloane had been confined there too.

  The hours passed.
  Partridge bad advised the others, "What we need to know is
            The Evening News     535

 how much activity there is at night in Nueva Esperanza, roughly how long
 it lasts, and wbat time everything settles down, with most lights out. I'd
 like a written record kept, with all times noted."
  At Partridge's request, Minh stayed another hour alone at the observation
  point and, later, Ken O'Hara relieved him.
  "Everyone get as much rest as you can," Partridge ordereO. "But we should
  man the observation point and the sentry post in the clearing all the
  time, which means only two people can sleep at once." After discussion
  it was decided they would alternate duty with sleep, using two-hour
  shifts.
  Earlier, Ferndndez had rigged hammocks with mosquito netting inside the
  hut they had found on arrival. The hammocks were less than comfortable,
  but those using them were too exhausted from the day's activity to care,
  and quickly fell asleep. The idea of bringing plastic sheeting was
  justified during the night when rain fell heavily and leaked through the
  hut roof. Femdndez adroitly covered the hammocks so the sleepers were
  protected. Those outside huddled in their own plastic protection as best
  they could until the rain stopped half an hour later.
  Nothing specific was done about meals. Food and water were handled
  individually, though they all knew the dried food must be used sparingly.
  Their water supply, brought from Lima the preceding day, had already been
  consumed, and several hours earlier Ferndndez had filled water bottles
  from a jungle stream, adding sterilizing tablets. He had warned that most
  local water was contaminated by chemicals used by drug processors. The
  water in the bottles now tasted awful and everyone drank as little as
  possible.
  By dawn next morning, Partridge had answers to his questions concerning
  Neuva Esperanza at night: There was very little activity--other than the
  strumming of a guitar and occasional strident voices and drunken laughter
  somewhere indoors. Such activity as there was lasted for about three and
  a half hours after dark. By 1:30 A.M. the entire hamlet was silent and
  dark.
  What they still needed to knew--assuming Partridge's sur- 536        ARTHUR HAILEY

 mises about the guards and the prisoners' location were correct -was how
 often a guard change occurred, and at what times. By morning no clear
 picture had emerged. If there had been another guard change in the night,
 it escaped observation.
  Their routine continued through the day.
  Manning of the sentry post and observation point was maintained, and even
  during daytime the hammocks were available to those off duty. All took
  advantage of them, knowing their reserves of endurance might be needed
  later.
  During the afternoon, while it was Harry Partridge's turn in a hammock,
  he contemplated what he and the others were doing . . . asking himself
  with a sense of unreality: Is all this really happening? Should their
  small, unofficial force be attempting a rescue? In a few hours, no more,
  they would probably have to kill or be killed themselves. Was it all
  madness? Like that line from Macbeth, ". . . life's fitful fever . . .
  "
  He was a professional journalist, wasn't he? A TV correspondent, an
  observer of wars and conflict, not a participant. Yet suddenly, by his
  own decision, he had become an adventurer, a mercenary, a would-be
  soldier. Did this switch in any way make sense?
  Whatever the answer, there was another question: If he, Harry Partridge,
  failed to do what was needed here and now, who would?
  And something else: A journalist covering wars, especially a TV
  correspondent, was never far from violence, mayhem, ugly wounding, sudden
  death. He or she lived those perils, shared them, sometimes suffered
  them, then brought them nightly into the clean and tidy living rooms of
  urban America, an environment where they were no more than images on a
  screen and therefore not dangerous to those who watched.
  And yet, increasingly, those images were becoming dangerous, were moving
  closer both in time and distance, and soon would be not only pictures on
  a tube but harsh reality in American cities and streets where crime
  already prowled. Now the violence and terrorism in the underprivileged,
  divided, wartorn half-world was moving nearer, ever nearer, to American
            The Evening News     537

 soil. It was inevitable and had been expected by international scholars
 for a long time.
  The Monroe Doctrine, once thought to be an American protection, no longer
  worked; nowadays few bothered even speaking of it. The kidnapping of the
  Sloane family within the United States by foreign agents had demonstrated
  that international terrorism was already there. There was more, much
  more, to corne--terrorist bombings, hostage taking, shelling in the
  streets. Tragically, there was no way to avoid it. Equally tragic was
  that many who were not participants soon would be -like it or not.
  So at this moment, Partridge thought, his involvement and that of the
  other three was not unreal. He suspected that Minh Van Canh, especially,
  saw nothing contradictory in their present situation. Minh, who had lived
  through and survived a terrible, divisive war within his own country,
  would find it easier than most to accept this undertaking now.
  And, in a personal way, beyond and overshadowing all those thoughts was
  Jessica. Jessica, who was probably close at hand, somewhere inside that
  hut. Jessica-Gemma whose memories and personalities, in his mind, were
  intertwined.
  Then . . . fatigue suddenly overwhelming him . . . he fell asleep.
  On awakening, some fifteen minutes before his own observation duty, he
  dropped down from the hammock and went outside to check the general
  situation.
  At the sentry post, &% previously, there had been no alarms or action.
  The observation point, however, had produced specific information and
  opinions.

  There was a regular change of an armed person-presum
  ably a guard-at the same location as on the night before,
  suggesting that prisoners were indeed housed in the build
  ing that stood apart from others. It seemed probable that a
  guard change was supposed to occur every four hours, but
  the timing was not exact. A changeover was sometimes as
  much as twenty minutes late and the imprecision, Partridge
  believed, showed a casualness on the guards' part, confirm- 538        ARTHUR BAILEY

  ing the message conveyed by Jessica: Security here is sometimes lax.
Since morning, what appeared to be food in containers had been delivered
 twice by women entering what was presumed to be the prisoners' building. The
 same woman who delivered food made two separate journeys out with pails
 which she emptied into the bush.
Within the hamlet, only at the suspected building did any guard or sentry
 post exist.
While members of the guard force were armed with automatic rifles, they did
 not seem to be soldiers or to operate as a trained unit.
During the day, all comings and goings to and from Nueva Esperanza were by
 boat. No road vehicle was seen. The engines on boats did not appear to
 require keys; therefore it would be easy to steal a boat if that line of
 escape was taken. On the other hand, there were plenty of other boats with
 which a stolen boat could be pursued. Ken O'Hara, who was familiar with
 boats, identified the best ones.
A unanimous view among the observers, though it was only an opinion, was
 that the people being observed were almost totally relaxed, which seemed to
 indicate that an aggressive incursion from outside was not expected. "If one
 was," FernAndez pointed out, "they would have patrols out, including up
 here, looking for people like us."

  At dusk, Partridge called the other three together and informed them,
  "We've watched long enough. We go down tonight."
  He told Fernindez, "You'll guide us from here. I want to arrive at that hut
  at 2 A.m. Everyone must be silent all the way. If we need to communicate,
  whisper."
  Minh asked, "Is there an order of battle, Harry?"
  "Yes," Partridge answered. "I'll go close up, look in to see what I can,
  then enter first. I'd like you right behind me, Minh, covering my back.
  Ferndndez will hang behind, watch the other houses for anyone appearing,
  but join us if we need help."
            The Evening News     539

  Fernindez nodded.
  Partridge turned to O'Hara, "Ken, you'll go directly to the jetty. I've
  decided we'll leave by boat. We don't know what kind of condition Jessica
  and Nicholas are in, and they may not be up to the journey we had coming
  here."
  "Got it!" O'Hara said. "I assume you want me to grab a boat. "
  "Yes and, if you can, disable some of the others, but remember-no noise!"
  "There'll be noise when we start the motor."
  "No," Partridge said. "We'll have to row away, and when we get to
  midstream let the current take us. Fortunately it's going in the right
  direction. Only when we're out of hearing will we start the engine."
  Even as he spoke, Partridge knew he was assuming everything would go
  well. If not, they would improvise as best they could, which included
  using weapons.
  Remembering the planned 8 A.m. rendezvous with AeroLibertad's Cheyenne
  II, Ferndndez inquired, "Have you decided which airstrip we'll try
  for-Sion or the other?"
  "I'll make that choice in the boat, depending how everything else goes
  and how much time we have."
  What was necessary now, Partridge concluded, was to check weapons,
  discard unneeded equipment and make sure they could travel as light and
  as fast as possible.
  A mixture of excitement and apprehension gripped them all.

                15

 Back in Lima on Saturday morning, after watching the AeroLibertad
 Cheyenne 11 depart, Rita Abrams had been taken completely by surprise
 on two counts.
  First, she had not expected an on-the-scene appearance by
 540        ARTHUR BAILEY

 Crawford Sloane. A message awaiting her at CBA's Entel Peru booth
 announced that Sloane would be in Lima by early morning, in fact could
 have arrived already. She promptly called Cesar's Hotel where, according
 to the message, he would be staying. Crawf had not yet checked in, and she
 left word advising him where she was and requesting that he phone.
  Second, and even more surprising, was the faxed letter from Les
  Chippingham, sent the previous evening to Harry Partridge. The
  instruction on the letter to place it in an envelope marked "Personal"
  had clearly not been noticed by the busy Entel fax operator and it
  arrived along with other mail, open so that anyone could read it. Rita
  did, and was incredulous.
  Harry had been fired, dismissed by CBA! "Effective immediately," the
  letter said, and he was to leave Peru "preferably" on
  Saturday-today!-"definitely" no later than Sunday. If a commercial flight
  to the U.S. was not available, he was authorized to charter. Big deal!
  The more Rita'thought about it, the more ridiculous and outrageous it
  was, especially now. Could Crawf's arrival in Lima, she wondered, have
  anything to do with it? She was sure it did, and waited impatiently to
  hear from Sloane, all the while her anger over the abominable treatment
  of Harry intensifying.
  Meanwhile, there was no way she could communicate the letter's contents
  to Partridge since he was already in the jungle, on his way to Nueva
  Esperanza.

  Sloane didn't telephone. After arriving at the hotel and receiving Rita's
  message, he took a taxi immediately to Entel. He had worked in Lima on
  assignment in the past and knew his way around.
  His first question to Rita was, "Where's Harry?"
  "In the jungle," she answered tersely, "risking his life trying to rescue
  your wife and boy." Then she thrust the faxed letter forward. "What the
  hell is this?"
  "What do you mean?" Crawford Sloane took the letter and read it as she
  watched him. He read it twice, then shook his head. "This is a mistake.
  It has to be."
            The Evening News     541

  A sharpness still in Rita's voice, she asked, "Are you telling me you
  don't know anything about it?"
  "Of course not." Sloane shook his head impatiently. "Harry's my friend.
  Right now I need him more than anyone else in the world. Please tell me
  what he's doing in the jungle-isn't that what you just said?" Sloane had
  clearly dismissed the letter as absurd, something he would not waste time
  on.
  Rita swallowed hard. Tears flooded her eyes; she was angry at her own
  misjudgment and injustice. "Oh, Christ, Crawf! I'm sorry." For the first
  time she took in the extra lines of strain on the anchorman's face, the
  anguish in his eyes. He looked far worse than when she had last seen him,
  eight days earlier. "I thought that somehow you . . . Oh, never mind!"
  Rita pulled herself together. "Here's what's happening, what Harry and
  the others are trying to do." She described the expedition to Nueva
  Esperanza and what Partridge hoped to achieve. She filled in background,
  too, explaining Partridge's doubts about telephone security-the reason
  his plan had not been reported to New York.
  At length Sloane said, "I'd like to talk to that pilot, find out how
  things were when he left Harry and the others. What's his name?"
  "Zileri." Rita looked at her watch. "He's probably not back yet, but I'll
  phone soon, and then we'll go. Have you had breakfast?"
  Sloane shook his head.
  "There's a cafeteria in the building. Let's go down."
  Over coffee and croissants, Rita said gently, "Crawf, we were all shocked
  and saddened by the news about your fatherHarry especially. I know he
  blamed himself for not moving faster, but we didn't have the information
  . . ."
  Sloane stopped her with a gesture. "I'll never blame Harry for
  anything-whatever happens, even now. No one could have done more."
  "I agree," Rita said, "which is what makes this so unbelievable." Once
  more she produced the faxed letter which Les Chippingham had signed.
  "This is no mistake, Crawf. This was intended. People don't make mistakes
  like that."
 542        ARTHUR HAILEY

  He read it again. "When we get upstairs I'll phone Les in New York."
  "Before you do, let's consider this: There's something behind it,
  something you and I don't know. Yesterday in New York--did anything
  happen out of the ordinary?"
 "You mean at CBAT'
 "Yes-,,
  Sloane considered. "I don't think so . . . well, I did hear Les was sent
  for by Margot Lloyd-Mason-apparently in an all-fired hurry. He was over
  at Stonehenge. But I've no idea what it was about."
  A sudden thought struck Rita. "Could it have been something to do with
  Globanic? Perhaps this." Opening her purse, she took out the several
  clipped sheets of paper Harry Partridge had given her this morning.
  Sloane took the sheets and read them. "Interesting! A huge debt-to-equity
  swap. Really big money! Where did you get this?"
  "From Harry." She repeated what Partridge had told her on the way to the
  airport-how he had received the document from the Peru radio commentator,
  Sergio Hurtado, who intended to broadcast the information during the
  coming week. Rita added, "Harry told me he didn't plan to use the story.
  Said it was the least we could do for Globanic which puts butter on our
  bread."
  "There could be a linkage between this and Harry's firing," Sloane said
  thoughtfully. "I see a possibility. Let's go upstairs and call Les now."
  "There's something I want to do first, when we get there," Rita said.
 The "something" was send for Victor Velasco.
  When the international manager of Entel appeared a few minutes later,
  Rita told him, "I want a secure line to New York, with no one listening."
  Velasco looked embarrassed. "Do you have reason to suppose - . ."
 "Yes.,,
 "Please come to my office. You may use a phone there."
            The Evening News     543

  Rita and Crawford Sloane followed the manager to a pleasant, carpeted
  office on the same floor. "Please use my desk." He pointed to a red
  phone. "That line is secure. I guarantee it. You may dial direct."
  "Thank you." With Partridge en route to Nueva Esperanza, Rita had no
  intention of letting his whereabouts, which might be mentioned in
  conversation, become known to Peru authorities.
  With a courteous nod, Velasco left the office, closing the door behind
  him.
  Sloane, seated at the desk, tried Les Chippingham's direct CBA News line
  first. There was no answer-not unusual on a Saturday morning. What was
  unusual was that the news president had not left with the CBA News
  switchboard a number where he could be reached. Consulting a pocket
  notebook, Sloane tried a third number-Chippingham's uptown Manhattan
  apartment. Again no response. There was a Scarsdale number where
  Chippingham sometimes spent weekends. He wasn't there either.
  "It rather looks," Sloane said, "as if he's deliberately made himself
  unavailable this morning." He sat at the desk, contemplative, weighing
  a decision.
 "What are you thinking of?" Rita asked.
  "Calling Margot I.loyd-Mason." He picked up the red phone. "I will."
  Sloane tapped out the U.S. overseas code again and the number of
  Stonehenge. An operator told him, "Mrs. LloydMason is not in her office
  today."
  "This is Crawford Sloane. Will you give me her home number, Please."
 "It's unlisted, Mr. Sloane. I'm not allowed to give it out."
 "But you have it?"
 The operator hesitated. "Yes, sir."
 "What's your name, operator?"
 "Noreen."
  "A beautiful name; I've always liked that. Now, please listen to me
  carefully, Noreen. By the way, do you recognize my voice?"
 544        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Oh yes, sir. I watch the news every night. But lately I've been worried
  . . ."
  "Thank you, Noreen. So have 1. Now, I'm calling from Lima, Peru, and I
  simply have to speak with Mrs. Lloyd-Mason. If you'll give me that
  number, I promise I will never breathe a word of how I got it, except
  that next time I'm in Stonehenge I'll come to the switchboard room and
  thank you personally."
  "Oh! Would you really, Mr. Sloane? We'd all love it!"
  "I always keep promises. The number, Noreen?"
  He wrote it down as she read it out.
  This time, the phone was answered on the second ring by a male voice
  which sounded like a butler's. Sloane identified himself and asked for
  Mrs. Lloyd-Mason.
  He waited several minutes, then Margot's voice, which was unmistakable,
  said, "Yes?"
  "This is Crawf. I'm calling from Lima."
  "So I was told, Mr. Sloane. I'm curious why you are calling me,
  particularly at home. First, though, I'd like to offer my sympathy about
  your father's death."
  "Thank you."
  Unusually for someone of his stature, Sloane had never been on a
  first-name basis with the CBA president and clearly she intended to keep
  it that way. He also guessed from her tone and aloofness that he would
  get nowhere with direct questions. He decided to try the timeworn
  journalist's trick which so often worked, even with sophisticated
  persons.
  "Mrs. Lloyd-Mason, yesterday when you decided to fire Harry Partridge
  from CBA, I wonder if you realized how much he has accomplished in the
  whole effort to find and free my wife, son and father."
  The reply came back explosively, "Who told you that was my decision?"
  He was tempted to answer, You just did! But restraining himself, he said,
  "In the TV news business, which is close-knit, almost nothing is secret.
  That's why I called you."
  Margot snapped, "I do not wish to discuss this now."
  "That's a pity," Sloane said, speaking quickly, before she
            The Evening News     545

 could hang up, "because I thought you might want to talk about the
 connection between Harry's firing and that big debtto-equity swap Globanic
 is arranging with Peru. Did Harry's honest reporting offend someone with
 a stake in that deal?"
  At the other end of the line there was a long silence in which he could
  hear Margot breathing. Then, her voice subdued, she asked, "Where did you
  hear all that?"
  So there was a connection after all!
  "Well," Sloane said, "the fact is, Harry Partridge learned about the
  debt-to-equity arrangement. He's a first-class reporter, you know, one
  of the best in our business, and right now he's out risking his life for
  CBA. Anyway, Harry decided not to use the information. His words were,
  I understand, 'That's the least I can do for Globanic, which puts butter
  on our bread.' "
  Again the silence. Then Margot asked, "So it isn't going to be
  publicized?"
  "Aha! That's another matter." In other circumstances, Sloane thought, he
  might have enjoyed this; as it was, he felt miserably depressed. "There's
  a radio reporter in Lima who uncovered the story, has a copy of the
  agreement, and intends to broadcast it next week. I expect it will be
  picked up outside Peru. Don't you?"
  Margot didn't answer. Wondering if she had hung up, he asked, "Are you
  still there?"
  "Yes.,'
  "Are you wishing, by chance, that you hadn't done what you did to Harry
  Partridge?"
  "No." The answer seemed disembodied, as if Margot's mind was far away.
  "No," she repeated, "I was thinking of other things."
  "Mrs. Lloyd-Mason"--Crawford Sloane employed the cutting tone he used
  occasionally for repulsive items in the news"has anyone told you lately
  that you are a cold-hearted bitch?"
  He replaced the red phone.

  Margot, too, hung up as her phone went silent. One day soon, she decided,
  she would find her own way to deal with the
 546        ARTHUR RAILEY

 self-important Mr. Crawford Sloane. But this was not the time. Right now,
 other things were more important.
  The news she had just been given about Globanic and Peru had severely
  jolted her. But she had been jolted in the past and seldom stayed that
  way for long. Margot had not climbed as high and fast as she had in the
  world of business without serious setbacks, and almost always she
  contrived to turn them to her advantage. Somehow she must do so now. She
  paused, weighing initiatives she could take.
  Without question, she must call Theo Elliott today. He never minded being
  disturbed about important business matters at any time, weekends
  included.
  She would tell him she had information that word was circulating in Peru
  about the Globanic deal, that a Peruvian reporter had somehow obtained
  a copy of the draft agreement and was about to publish it. It had nothing
  to do with CBA or, for that matter, any other U.S. network or newspuper;
  it was a local Peruvian leak, though a bad one.
  The whole thing was unfortunate, she would tell Theo, and she didn't want
  to make judgments, though could not help wondering: Had Fossie Xenos been
  careless about who he talked to, particularly in Peru? It did seem
  possible, based on what she had heard, that the enthusiasm Fossie was
  noted for had made him indiscreet.
  She would also tell Theo that because of the activity among the Peruvian
  press, the matter had come to the attention of CBA News. But Margot had
  given definite orders that CBA would not report it.
  With luck, she thought, by early next week any adverse attention would
  have shifted away from herself and landed on Fossie. Good!
  During her ruminations, Margot did give brief thought to Harry Partridge.
  Should he be reinstated? Then she decided no. Doing that would only
  confuse things, and Partridge wasn't important, so let the decision
  stand. Besides, Theo would still want to make his phone call to Peru's
  President Castafieda on Monday saying that the troublemaker-to use Theo's
  wordhad been dismissed and banished from Peru.
            The Evening News     547

  Smiling, confident her strategy would work, she picked up the phone and
  tapped out the unlisted number of Theo Elliott's home.

  The ' AeroLibertad owner and pilot, Oswaldo Zileri, had heard of Crawford
  Sloane and was appropriately respectful.
  "When your friends arranged their charter, Mr. Sloane, I said I did not
  wish to know their purpose. Now that I see you here, I can guess it, and
  I wish you, and them, well."
  "Thank you," Sloane said. He and Rita were in Zileri's modest office near
  Lima's airport. "When you left Mr. Partridge and the others this morning,
  how did everything look?"
  Zileri shrugged. "The way the jungle always looks-green, impenetrable,
  endless. There was no activity, other than by your friends."
  Rita told Zileri, "When we talked about extra passengers coming back, we
  hoped there would be three. But now it's two."
  "I have heard the sad news about Mr. Sloane's father." The pilot shook
  his head. "We live in savage times."
  Sloane began, "I was wondering if now . . ."
  Zileri finished for him. ". . . if there might be room for you and Miss
  Abrams to go on the other trips-one, two, or more -to bring the people
  back."
  "Yes.,,
  "It will be okay. Because one of the expected passengers is a boy, and
  there will be no freight or baggage, weight will not be a problem. You
  must be here before dawn tomorrow-and the next day, if we go."
  "We will be," Rita said. She turned to Sloane. "Harry wasn't optimistic
  about making a rendezvous the first day after going in. The flight is a
  precaution in case they need it. All along, he thought the second day
  more likely."

  There was one other thing Rita felt she had to do. She did not tell
  Crawf, but composed a fax message to Les Chippingham, to be waiting for
  him Monday morning. Deliberately, she did not route the message to the
  fax machine in the news
 548        ARTHUR HAILEY

 president's office, but to one at the Horseshoe. There it would be the
 reverse of private and could be read by others-just as Chippingham's letter
 dismissing Harry Partridge had been when it arrived at Entel Peru.
  Rita addressed her communication:

 L W Chippingham
 President, CBA News
 Copies: All Notice Boards

  She had no illusions that what she had written would get on any notice
  board. It wouldn't. But it was a signal, which would be understood by
  fellow producers at the Horseshoe, that she wanted wide circulation.
  Someone would make a copy or copies, to be passed around, read, and
  probably copied again and again.
  The message read:

   You sordid, selfish, cowardly son of a bitchl
   To fire Harry Partridge the way you did-without cause, warning or even
   explanation-just to satisfy your cozy crony, the Iceberg-woman,
   Lloyd-Mason, is a betrayal of everything which used to be fair and
   decent at CBA.
   Harry will come out of this smelling like Chanel No. 5. You already
   stink like the sewer rat you are.
   How I ever let myself go to bed with you regularly is beyond my
   understanding. But never againl Ifyou had the last erect cock on earth,
   I wouldn't have it near me.
   As for working for you any longer-ugh I
   With deep sadness for what you used to be, compared with what you have
   become,
   Your ex-friend, ex-admirer, ex-lover, ex-producer,
                          Rita Abrams

  Obviously, Rita thought, after that was received and digested, Harry was
  not the only one who would be looking for
            The Evening News     549

 fresh employment. But she didn't care. She felt a whole lot better as
 she watched the fax leave Entel, knowing that a moment later it was
 already in New York.

                16

 It was 2:10 A.M. in Nueva Esperanza.
  Jessica had been restless for the past several hours, drifting in and out
  of sleep, dreaming at times-the dreams becoming nightmares merging with
  reality.
  Moments earlier, certain she was awake, Jessica had peered through the
  roughly cut window opening facing her cell, and what she thought she saw
  in dim light reflected from inside was the face of Harry Partridge. Then
  the face disappeared as suddenly as it came. Was she awake? Or could she
  still be dreaming? Hallucinating, maybe?
  Jessica was shaking her head, trying to clear it, when the face appeared
  again, rising slowly above the lowest window level, and this time it
  stayed. A hand made a signal which she didn't understand, but she studied
  the face again. Could it be? Her heart leaped as she decided: Yes, it
  could! It was Harry Partridge.
  The face was mouthing something silently, the lips making exaggerated
  movements, attempting to communicate. She concentrated, trying to
  understand, and managed to grasp the words "the guard." That was it: "ere
  was the guard?
  The guard at the moment was Vicente. He had come on duty an hour
  ago-apparently very late-and there had been a heated argument between him
  and Rarn6n, who had the earlier duty. Ram6n had shouted angrily. Vicente,
  in arguing back, sounded drunk-at least his speech was slurred. Jessica
  didn't care about the dispute and, as always, was glad to see Ram6n go;
  he had a vicious streak, was unpredictable, and still insisted
 550        ARTHUR HAILEY

 on the silence rule for the prisoners which, by now, none of the other
 guards enforced.
  Turning her head, Jessica could see Vicente. He was seated in the chair
  which all the guards used, beyond the cells and out of sight of the window.
  She wasn't sure, but his eyes seemed closed. His automatic rifle was
  propped against the wall alongside him. Nearby a kerosene lamp hung from
  a beam above, and it was by the lamp's reflected light she had seen the
  face outside.
  Being c,-.reful, in case Vicente should suddenly observe her, Jessica
  answered the silent question by inclining her head toward where he was
  seated.
  At once the mouth on the face at the window-Jessiea still had trouble
  accepting it as Harry Partridge's-began to form words again. Once more, she
  concentrated. After the third time she understood the message: "Call him!"
  Jessica nodded slightly, intimating that she understood. Her heart was
  pounding at the sight of Harry. It could only mean, she thought, that the
  rescue they had hoped for for so long was finally happening. At the same
  time, she knew that completing whatever had been started would not be easy.
  "Vicente!" She raised her voice no louder than she thought was needed, but
  it was not enough to penetrate his dozing. A touch more strongly, she tried
  again. "Vicente!"
  This time he stirred. Vicente's eyes opened and met Jessica's. As they did,
  she beckoned him.
  Vicente shifted in his chair. He started to rise and, watching him, Jessica
  had the impression he was organizing himself mentally, trying to sober tip.
  He stood, started to come toward her, then quickly turned back to collect
  his rifle. He held it in a businesslike way, she noticed, clearly ready to
  use it if required.
  She had better have an excuse for summoning Vicente, Jessica reasoned, and
  decided she would ask by gestures if she could go into Nicky's cell. The
  request would be refused, but at this point that didn't matter.
  She had no idea what Harry had in mind. She only knew, while her anxiety
  and tension grew, that this was the moment she had dreamed about, yet
  feared might never come.
            The Evening News     551

  Crouched low beneath the window, Partridge gripped his nine-millimeter
  Browning pistol, the silencer extending from the barrel. So far tonight,
  everything had gone exactly as planned, but he knew the most difficult
  and crucial part of the action was about to begin.
  The next few seconds would offer him limited alternatives, one of which
  he would have to choose in an instant's decision. The way it looked now,
  he might be able to hold up the guard, using the Browning as a threat,
  after which the guard would either be bound securely, gagged and left,
  or taken with them as a captive. The second choice would be least
  preferable. There was a third possibility-to kill the guard, but that was
  something he would prefer not to do.
  One thing was working in his favon Jessica was resourceful, quick to
  think and understand--exactly as he remembered her.
  He listened to her call twice, heard minor noises from somewhere out of
  sight, then footsteps as the guard walked over. Partridge held his
  breath, ready to slump below the window level entirely if the guard was
  looking in his direction.
  He wasn't. The man had his back to Partridge and faced Jessica, which
  gave Partridge an extra second to assess the scene.
  The first thing he recognized was that the guard was carrying a
  Kalashnikov automatic rifle, a weapon Partridge knew well, and from the
  way it was being handled, the guard knew how to use it. Compared with the
  Kalashnikov, Partridge's Browning was a peashooter.
  The conclusion was inevitable and inescapable: Partridge would have to
  kill the guard and get his shot in first, which meant surprise.
  But there was an obstacle. Jessica. She was now exactly in line with the
  guard and Partridge. A shot aimed at the guard could hit Jessica too.
  Partridge had to gamble. There would be no other chance, could be no
  other choice. And the gamble would be on Jessica's fast thinking and
  instant action.
 552        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Taking a breath, Partridge called out loudly, clearly, "Jessica, drop to
  the floor-nowl"
  Instantly, the guard spun around, his rifle raised, the safety off. But
  Partridge already had the Browning raised and sighted. A moment earlier he
  had remembered the advice of a firearms instructor who taught him to use
  weapons: "Ifyou want to kill a person, don't aim for the head Chances are,
  no matter how gently you squeeze the trigger, the gun will rise and the
  bullet will go high, perhaps clear over the head So aim for the heart, or
  slightly below. That way, even if the bullet's higher than the heart, it
  will do a lot of damage, probably kill, and if it doesn't, you'll have time
  for a second shot. "
  Partridge squeezed the trigger and the Browning fired with a near-silent
  "pfft!" Even though he had had experience with silencers, their quietness
  always surprised him. He peered down the sights, ready for a second shot,
  but it wasn't needed. The first had hit the guard in the chest, just about
  where the heart should be and where blood was beginning to appear. For an
  instant the man looked surprised, then he fell where he was, dropping the
  rifle, which created the only noise.
  Even before it happened, Partridge had seen Jessica drop flat to the
  ground, obeying his command instantly. In a crevice of his mind he was
  relieved and grateful. Now Jessica was scrambling to her feet.
  Partridge turned toward the outside doorway to the shack, but a swiftly
  moving shadow was ahead of him. It was Minh Van Canh, who had stayed
  positioned at Partridge's rear, as ordered, but now changed places, going
  forward. Minh went swiftly to the guard, his own Uzi at the ready, then
  confirmed with a nod to Partridge, just entering, that the man was dead.
  Next, Minh moved to Jessica's cell, inspected the padlock which secured it
  and asked, "Where is the key?"
  Jessica told him, "Somewhere over where the guard was sitting. Nicky's
  too."
  In the adjoining cell, Nicky stirred from sleep. Abruptly, he sat upright.
  "Mom, what's happenine."
  Jessica assured him, "It's good, Nicky. All good!"
  Nicky took in the new arrivals-Partridge, approaching
            The Evening News     553

 and holding the Kalashnikov rifle he had just picked up, and Minh
 collecting keys which were hanging from a nail. "Who are they, Mom?"
  "Friends, dear. Very good friends."
  Nicky, still sleepy, brightened. Then he saw the fallen, still figure on
  the ground amid a widening pool of blood and cried out, "It's Vicente!
  They shot Vicente! Why?"
  "Hush, Nicky!" Jessica warned.
  Keeping his voice low, Partridge answered. "I didn't like doing it,
  Nicholas. But he was going to shoot me. If he had, I couldn't have taken
  you and your mother away from here, which is what we've come to do."
  With a flash of recognition, Nicky said, "You're Mr. Partridge, aren't
  you?"
  "Yes, I am."
  Jessica said emotionally, "Oh, bless you, Harry! Dear Harry!"
  Still speaking softly, Partridge cautioned, "We're not out of this yet,
  and we've a way to go. We all have to move quickly."
  Minh had returned with the keys and was trying them, one by one, in the
  padlock of Jessica's cell. Suddenly the lock opened. An instant later the
  door swung wide and Jessica walked out. Minh went to Nicky's cell and
  tried out keys there. Within seconds Nicky was free too, and he and
  Jessica embraced briefly in the area between the cells and the outside
  door.
  "Help me!" Partridge told Minh. He had been dragging the body of the
  guard toward Nicky's cell and together they lifted the dead man onto the
  low wooden bed. The action would not prevent discovery of the prisoners'
  escape, Partridge thought, but might delay it slightly. With the same
  motive, he lowered the light in the kerosene lamp so it was merely a
  glimmer, the hut interior receding into darkness.
  Nicky left Jessica and moved close to Partridge. In a stilted monotone,
  he said, "It's all right about shooting Vicente, Mr. Partridge. He helped
  us sometimes, but he was one of them. They killed my granddad and cut off
  two of my fingers, so I can't play the piano anymore." He held up his
  bandaged hand.
 554        ARTHUR HAILEY

  "Call me Harry," Partridge said. "Yes, I knew about your grandfather and
  the fingers. And I'm terribly sorry."
  Again the uptight, rigid voice. "Do you know about the Stockholm
  syndrome, Harry? My mom does. If you'd like her to, she'll tell you."
  Without answering, Partridge looked closely at Nicky. He had encountered
  shock before-in individuals affected by more exposure to danger or
  disaster than their minds could handleand the boy's tone and choice of
  words within the past few minutes held symptoms of shock. He was going
  to need help soon. Meanwhile, doing the best he could, Partridge reached
  out and put his arm around Nicky's shoulders. He felt the boy respond by
  drawing closer to him.
  Partridge saw Jessica watching, her face showing the same concern as his
  own. She, too, wished the guard could have been someone other than
  Vicente. If it had been Ram6n, she would not have been troubled in the
  least. Just the same, she was taken aback by Nicky's words and manner.
  Partridge shook his head, trying to convey reassurance to Jessica, at the
  same time ordering, "Let's go."
  In his free hand he kept the Kalashnikov; it was a good fighting weapon
  and might be useful. He had also pocketed two spare magazines he found
  on the body of the guard.
  Minh was ahead of them at the doorway. He had retrieved his camera from
  outside and now had it raised, recording their departure with the cells
  as background. Minh was using a special night lens, Partridge
  noted-infrared didn't work with tape -and he would have passable
  pictures, even in this dimmest light.
  Since yesterday, Minh had been taking pictures from time to time, though
  selectively and sparingly since there had been limitations on the number
  of tape cassettes he could bring.
  At that moment Ferndndez, who had been watching the other buildings,
  burst in. He warned Partridge breathlessly, "Coming here-a woman! By
  herself. I think she's armed." At the same moment, approaching footsteps
  were audible and close.
  There was no time for orders or dispositions. Everyone
            The Evening News     555

 froze where they were. Jessica was near the doorway, though off to one
 side. Minh faced the opening directly, the others were farther back in
 shadows. Partridge had the Kalashnikov raised. Though he knew that firing
 it would awaken the hamlet, to get at the Browning with its silencer, he
 would have to put the rifle down and change hands. There wasn't time.
  Socorro walked in briskly. She was wearing a robe and holding a Smith and
  Wesson revolver pointed forward, the hammer cocked. Jessica had seen
  Socorro with a gun before, but it had always been holstered, never in her
  hand.
  Despite the gun, Socorro did not appear to be expecting anything out of
  the ordinary, and in the almost nonexistent light at first mistook Minh,
  who was closest, for the guard. She said, "Pensg que escuch6 . . . " Then
  she realized it wasn't the guard and glancing left, saw Jessica.
  Startled, she exclaimed, "IQW haces . . . ?" then stopped.
  What happened next occurred so swiftly that, later, no one could describe
  the sequence of events.
  Socorro raised the revolver and, with her finger around the trigger,
  moved swiftly, closing on Jessica. Afterward, it was assumed she intended
  to seize Jessica and hold her hostage, perhaps with the pistol at her
  head.
  Jessica saw the move coming and, with equal swiftness, re
 membered CQB --- close quarters battle-which she had learned
 but had not used since capture. While tempted at earlier mo
 ments to employ it, she had known that in the long term it
 would do no good and decided to save her skill for a moment
 when it really counted.
  "When an opponent moves towards you, " Brigadier Wade had emphasized
  during lessons and demonstrations, '~Vour human instinct is to move back
  The opponent will expect that too. Don't do itl Instead, surprise him and
  go forward-move in close!"
  With lightning speed, Jessica leapt at Socorro, raising her left arm,
  braced rigidly, upward and forcefully inside the other woman's right.
  With a jarring movement as the arms made contact, Socorro's arm flew
  involuntarily upward, forcing her hand back until the fingers opened in
  a reflex action and the
 556        ARTHUR HAILEY

 gun dropped. The entire maneuver took barely a second, Socorro scarcely
 aware of what had happened.
  Without pause, Jessica thrust two fingers hard into the soft flesh under
  Socorro's chin, the fingers compressing the trachea and impeding breathing.
  Simultaneously Jessica placed a leg behind Socorro and pushed her backward,
  throwing her off balance. Jessica then turned Socorro and placed her in a
  tight stranglehold, making it impossible for her to move. If this had been
  war-for which CQB was intended-the next step would have been to break
  Socorro's neck and kill.
  Jessica, who had never killed anyone or ever expected to, hesitated. She
  felt Socorro struggling to speak and slightly eased the pressure of her
  fingers.
  Gasping, Socorro pleaded in a whisper, "Let me go . . . I will help you .
  . . go with you to escape . . . know the way."
  Partridge had come close enough to hear. He asked, "Can you trust her?"
  Again, Jessica hesitated. She had a moment of compassion. Socorro had not
  been all evil. All along, Jessica had an instinct that Socorro's days in
  America as a nurse had tilted her toward good. She had cared for Nicky
  after his bums, and later when his fingers were severed. There was the
  incident of the chocolate bar, tossed by Socorro into the boat when all
  three were hungry. Socorro had improved their living conditions by having
  openings cut in walls . . . had disobeyed Miguel's orders in allowing
  Jessica to join Nicky in his cell . . .
  But it was also Socorro who had been part of the kidnap from the beginning
  and who, when Nicky's fingers were being cut, had called across callously,
  "Shut upl There's no way you can stop what's going to happen. "
  And then, in her mind, Jessica heard Nicky's words, spoken
 only minutes earlier: "It's all right about shooting Vicente,
 Harry . . . He helped us sometimes, but he was one of them
 . . . Do you know about the Stockholm syndrome? . . . . My
 mom does . . . "
  Beware the Stockholm syndrome!
  Jessica answered Partridge's question. Shaking her head, she told him,
  "No!"
            The Evening News     557

  Their eyes met. Harry had been amazed by Jessica's demonstration of skill
  in hand-to-hand combat. He wondered where she bad learned it and why. At
  the moment, though, that didn't matter. What did matter was that she had
  reached a point of decision and her eyes were asking him a question. He
  nodded briefly. Then, not wanting to witness what came next, he turned
  away.
  Shuddering, Jessica tightened her grip, broke Socorro's neck, then
  twisted the head sharply to sunder the spinal cord. There was a snapping
  sound, surprisingly faint, and the body Jessica was holding slumped. She
  let it fall.

  Led by Partridge, with Jessica, Nicky, Minh and FernAndez following
  quietly, the group moved through the darkened hamlet, encountering no
  one.
  At the jetty Ken O'Hara said, "I thought you'd never get here."
  "We had problems," Partridge told him. "Let's move fast! Which boat?"
  "This one." It was an open wooden workboat about thirty feet long, with
  twin outboard motors. Two lines secured it to the jetty. "I grabbed some
  extra fuel from other boats." O'Hara pointed to several plastic
  containers near the stem.
  "Everybody aboard!" Partridge ordered.
  Earlier, a three-quarters moon had been obscured by cloud, but within the
  past few minutes the cloud had shifted. Now everything was lighter,
  particularly over the water.
  FemAndez helped Jessica and Nicky into the boat. Jessica was shaking
  uncontrollably and feeling sick, both aftereffects of having killed
  Socorro only minutes earlier. Minh, taking pictures from the jetty,
  jumped in last as O'Hara, unfastening the lines, used an oar to push out
  from shore. Ferndndez grabbed a second oar. Together he and O'Hara rowed
  toward midstream.
  Looking around, Partridge could see that O'Hara had used his waiting time
  effectively. Several other boats were settling in the water near shore,
  others drifting away.
  "I pulled some plugs." O'Hara gestured to the nearer boats.
 558        ARTHUR HAILEY

 "Those can be refloated, but it'll cause delay. Threw a couple of good
 motors in the river."
  "Nice going, Ken!" His decision to bring O'Hara, Partridge thought, had
  been vindicated several times.
  There were no proper seats in the boat they were using. As with the one in
  which Jessica, Nicky and Angus had traveled earlier, passengers sat low on
  boards running fore and aft above the keel. The two rowers had positioned
  themselves on opposite sides and were striving hard to reach the Huallaga
  River's center. As the sight of Nueva Esperanza faded in the moonlight, a
  strong current was already carrying them downstream.
  Partridge had checked his watch as they left the jetty: 2:35 A.m. At 2:50,
  with the boat moving along well, following the river's generally northwest
  course, he told Ken O'Hara to start the engines.
  O'Hara opened a fuel-tank air vent on the port-side engine, adjusted a
  choke, pumped a rubber ball and pulled a flywheel rope hard. The engine
  fired immediately. He adjusted the engine speed to a fast idle, then
  followed the same procedure with the second engine. As he put both engines
  in gear, the boat surged forward.
  The sky had stayed clear. Bright moonlight, reflected on the water, made
  navigation relatively easy along the river's winding course.
  Fernindez asked, "Have you decided which landing strip we'll head for?"
  Partridge calculated, visualizing Femdridez's large-scale map which, by
  now, he almost knew by heart.
  First, choosing the river for departure had ruled out a rendezvous at the
  highway landing point where they arrived. That left the intermediate drug
  traffickers' landing strip, which they might reach in an hour and a half,
  or the more distant Sion airstrip which could mean three hours on the
  river, plus a three-mile trek through the jungle on foot-a difficult chal-
  lenge, as they already knew.
  To get to Sion by 8 A.M., when the AeroLibertad Cheyenne 11 would be
  overhead, might be cutting things close. On the other hand, at the
  intermediate strip they would be several
            The Evening News     559

 hours early, and if a pursuit should catch them there it would mean a
 firefight which, outnumbered and outgunned, they would almost certainly
 lose.
  Therefore the best and wisest course seemed to continue putting the
  greatest possible distance between themselves and Nueva Esperanza.
  "We aim for Sion," Partridge told the others in the boat. "When we leave
  the river and go ashore, we'll have to push hard and fast through the
  jungle, so get whatever rest you can - "

  As the time passed, Jessica became more composed; her involuntary shaking
  ceased, the sickness disappeared. She doubted, though, if she would ever
  have total peace of mind about what she had done. Certainly the memory of
  Socorro's desperate, pleading whisper would haunt her for a long, long time
  ahead.
  But Nicky was safe-at least for the moment-and that was what mattered most.
  She had been watching Nicky, aware that ever since they left the prison
  shack he had stayed close to Harry Partridge, at moments being almost
  underfoot. It seemed as if Harry were a magnet to which Nicky sought to
  attach himself. Even now he had settled beside Harry in the boat, clearly
  wanting some physical contact, snuggling up close, which Harry seemed not
  to mind. In fact, as happened earlier, Harry had put his arm around Nicky's
  shoulders and the two at this moment seemed as one.
  Jessica liked that. Part of Nicky's feeling-inevitably, she thought-was
  that Harry, appearing as he did, represented all that was opposite from the
  evil gang who engineered the horrors they had been through-Miguel,
  Baudelio, Gustavo, Ram6n . . . the others known and unknown . . . yes,
  Vicente and Socorro too.
  But more than that. Nicky's instincts about people had always been good.
  Jessica had once loved Harry-in a way still did, especially now when
  gratitude and love were mingled. Therefore it did not seem strange at all
  that her son instinctively should share that feeling.
 560        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Nicky seemed to be sleeping. Disengaging himself gently, Partridge
  maneuvered his way across and sat beside her. FernAndez, observing the
  movement, changed sides also, balancing the boat.
  Partridge too had been thinking of the past-what he and Jessica had once
  meant to each other. And even in this short time he could see that
  essentially she hadn't changed. All the things he had most admired-her
  quick mind, strong spirit, warmth, intelligent resourcefulness-were still
  in place. Partridge knew that if he were around Jessica for long, his old
  love would revive. A provocative thought---except it wasn't going to
  happen.
  She had turned toward him, perhaps reading his mind. He remembered, from
  the old days, that she often could.
  He asked, "Back there, did you ever give up hope?"
  "There were times I came close to it, though never entirely," Jessica
  -,aid. She smiled. "Of course, if I'd known you were in charge of rescue,
  that would have made a difference."
  "We were a team," he told her. "Crawf was part of it. He's gone through
  hell, but then so have you. When we get back, you'll both need each other."
  He sensed she knew what he was saying too: Though he had returned briefly
  to her life, he would shortly disappear.
  "That's a sweet thought, Harry. And what will you do?"
  He shrugged. "Go on reporting. Somewhere there'll be another war. There
  always is."
  "And in between wars?"
  To some questions there were no answers. He changed the subject. "Your
  Nicky's fine-the kind of boy I'd liked to have had myself."
  It could have happened, Jessica thought. For both of us, all those years
  ago.
  Without wanting to, Partridge found himself thinking of Gemma and their
  unborn baby boy.
  Beside him he heard Jessica sigh. "Oh, Harryl"
  They were silent, listening to the outboard motors' thrum
            The Evening News     561

 and the churning river water. Then she reached out and put her hand on
 his.
  "Thank you, Harry," she said. "Thank you for everything . . . the past,
  the present . . . my dearest love."

                17

 Miguel fired three shots into the air, shattering the silence.
  He knew it was the quickest way to sound an alarm.
  Barely a minute ago, he had discovered the bodies of Socorro and Vicente
  and realized the prisoners were gone.
  It was 3:15 A.m. and, though Miguel did not know it, precisely forty
  minutes since the boat containing Partridge, Jessica, Nicky, Minh, O'Hara
  and Ferndndez had left the Nueva Esperanza jetty.
  Miguel's anger was instantaneous, savage and explosive. Inside the
  prisoners' hut he had seized the guards' chair and hurled it against a
  wall; the chair had broken. Now he wanted to bludgeon, then dismember limb
  by limb, those responsible for the prisoners' escape.
  Unfortunately, two of them were dead already. And Miguel was painfully
  aware that he also shared some of the blame.
  Without question, he had been lax in enforcing discipline. Now that it was
  too late, he saw that clearly. Since coming here he had relaxed at times
  when he should have been attentive. At night, he had left others to oversee
  precautions he should have supervised himself.
  The reason had been a weakness-his infatuation with Socorro.
  He had wanted her sexually while at the Hackensack house, both before the
  kidnap and immediately after. Even now he recalled her blatant sexuality
  on the day of departure when, with a mocking smile she had spoken to him
  of catheters in-
   562        ARTHUR HAILEY

 serted in the prisoners for the journey: "That's tubes in the men's cocks
 and the bitch's cunt. lEntiendes?"
  Yes, he had understood. He had also understood that she was taunting him,
  just as she taunted the others at Hackensack -for example, the night of her
  sudden, noisy coupling with Carlos, making Rafael, whom she had refused,
  near-rabid with jealousy.
  But at that time Miguel had other things to consider, responsibilities that
  kept him occupied, and he had been stem and self-disciplined about his own
  desire for Socorro.
  It had not been that way at Nueva Esperanza.
  He hated the jungle; he remembered his feelings on their first day here.
  Compounding that, there had been little to do. He had never taken
  seriously, for example, the possibility of attempts to rescue the
  prisoners; Nueva Esperanza, so deep in Sendero territory, had seemed remote
  and safe. Therefore the days passed slowly, as did the nights-until
  Socorro, responding to his pleas, opened the doorway to what he quickly
  discovered was a sexual paradise.
  Since then they had had sex together, sometimes in the days, always in the
  nights, and she had proved the most accomplished and satisfying lover he
  had ever known. In the end he had become her willing vassal, and like an
  addict awaiting the next fix had neglected most else.
  He was now paying for that addiction.
  Earlier tonight, after an exceptionally satisfying orgy, he had slept
  deeply. Then some twenty minutes ago he awakened with an erection and,
  wanting Socorro once more, was unhappy to find her gone. For a while he
  waited for her to return. When she didn't, he had gone to look for her,
  taking with him the Makarov pistol he always carried.
  What he found had returned him-like a harsh, savage blow-to a world of grim
  reality.
  Miguel thought bitterly: He would pay for what had happened, most likely
  with his life when Sendero Luminoso got word of this, especially if the
  prisoners were not recaptured. Therefore the first priority was to
  recapture them-at any cost!
  Now alerted by his shots, with Gustavo in the lead the
            The Evening News     563

 other guards had emerged from houses and were running toward him.
  He flailed them with his tongue. "IMaIdita escoria, imb~-ciles
  inservibles! Por su estupidez . . . iNunca vigilar! iSolo dormir y tomarl
  ISin cuidar! . . . los presos de mierda se escaparon. 11
  Singling out Gustavo, he tore into him. "You fucking useless moron! A
  mangy dog would be a better leader! Strangers came here while you slept
  and you ignored them, helped them! Find out where they came and how they
  left. There must be traces!"
  -Gustavo was back within moments. He announced, "They left by the river!
  Some boats are gone, others sunk!"
  In a tearing rage, Miguel hurried to the jetty. The havoc that he
  found-mooring lines cut, boats and engines missing, some boats sunk in
  shallow water-was enough to send him into a frenzy. He knew, though, that
  unless he cooled and took control, nothing would be salvaged from this
  disaster. With an effort of will, he began to think objectively.
  Continuing in Spanish, he told Gustavo, "I want the two best boats that
  are left, with two motors on each. Not ready in ten minutes, but now! Use
  everybody! Work fast, fast, fast! Then I want everyone assembled on dock,
  with guns and ammunition, ready to leave."
  Weighing possibilities, he decided that whoever engineered the prisoners'
  release almost certainly came by air into the area; it was the fastest,
  most practical means of transport. Therefore they would leave the same
  way, though it was unlikely they had done so yet.
  Ram6n had just reported that he was relieved by Vicente soon after I
  A.M., when all was well and the prisoners safely in their cells. So even
  if their release occurred immediately after, the maximum head start of
  the intruders was two hours. Miguel's instincts-aided by the fact that
  Socorro's and Vicente's bodies were still warm when found-told him it was
  substantially less.
  He continued reasoning: From Nueva Esperanza, a departure by river for
  rendezvous with an airplane involved a choice
 564        ARTHUR HAILEY

 between two possible jungle airstrips. One airstrip, the nearer, had no
 name; it was simply used by drug planes. The other was Sion-almost twice the
 distance and where the Lea~et bringing Miguel, the other conspirators and
 the prisoners had arrived slightly more than three weeks ago.
  There could be reasons for using either airstrip, which was why Miguel
  decided to send one armed boatload to the nearer strip, a second to Sion.
  He decided to go with the Sion-destined boat.
  Even while he had been thinking, activity around the jetty had speeded up.
  Two of the partially sunk boats were now pulled nearer to shore and being
  emptied of water. Those in the Sendero group who were working had been
  joined by other hamlet residents. They all knew that if Sendero Luminoso's
  leadership became enraged at Nueva Esperanza, the organization could wipe
  out the entire populace without compunction. Similar acts had happened
  before.

  Despite the haste, getting started took longer than Miguel would have
  liked. But a few minutes before 4 A.m., both boats were under way, heading
  northwest with the current, the twin motors on each opened to full
  throttle. Miguel's boat, heading for Sion, was substantially faster and
  pulled ahead soon after leaving the Nueva Esperanza jetty. Gustavo was at
  the helm.
  Miguel, nursing a Beretta submachine gun which supplemented his Makarov
  pistol, felt his anger rise again. He still had no idea who had released
  the prisoners. But when he caught them and brought them back-alive, as he
  intendedthey would suffer slow and horrible tortures.
            The Evening News     565

                18

 As the AeroLibertad Cheyenne 11 lifted off from Lima airport in the first
 gray light of dawn, some words remembered from an earlier time came back to
 Crawford Sloane: If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the
 uttermost parts of the sea . . .
  Yesterday, Sunday, they had taken the wings of morning, not to the sea but
  inland, though without result. Today they were heading inland again-toward
  the jungle.
  Rita was beside Sloane in the aircraft's second row of seats. Ahead of them
  were the pilot, Oswaldo Zileri and a young second pilot, Felipe Guerra.
  During the preceding day's flight, which lasted three hours, they had flown
  over all three prearranged points. Though Sloane was informed of their
  arrival at each, he had difficulty distinguishing one from another, so
  continuous and impenetrable did the Selva seem when viewed from above.
  "It's like parts of Vietnam," he told Rita, "but more tightly knit."
  While circling each point, all four aboard scrutinized the area for any
  signal or sign of movement. But there was no activity of any kind.
  Sloane hoped desperately that today would be different.
  As dawn changed to full daylight, the Cheyenne Il climbed over the Andes
  peaks of the Cordillera Central Range. Then, on the far side, they began
  a slow descent toward the Selva and the Upper Huallaga Valley.
 566        ARTHUR HAILEY

               19

Partridge knew he had miscalculated. They were seriously late. What he had
 not allowed for in choosing Sion over the nearer airstrip was a problem
 with their boat. It happened about two hours after leaving Nueva
 Esperanza, with another hour to go before reaching the place where they
 would abandon the boat and begin their trek to the airstrip.
  Both outboard motors had been running noisily but smoothly when an
  internal, strident horn abruptly sounded on the port-side motor. Ken
  O'Hara throttled back at once, took the engine out of gear and switched
  off. As he did, the horn and engine went silent.
  The starboard engine continued operating, though the boat was now moving
  at a noticeably slower speed.
  Partridge moved to the stern and asked O'Hara, "Whatever it is, is it
  fixable?"
  "Unlikely, I'm afraid." O'Hara had removed the engine cover and was
  examining beneath. "The engine's overheated; that's why the horn sounded.
  The raw water intake is clear, so almost certainly the coolant pump has
  gone. Even if I had tools to take the engine apart, it would probably
  need new parts and since we don't have either . . ." He let the words
  trail off.
  "So we positively can't repair it?"
  O'Hara shook his head. "Sorry, Harry."
  "What happens if we run it?"
  "It will run for a short time and go on overheating. Then everything will
  get so hot, the pistons and cylinder block will fuse together. After
  that, all an engine's good for is the garbage dump."
  "Run it," Partridge said. "If there's nothing else we can do, let's get
  the most out of it for as long as we can."
  "You're the skipper," O'Hara acknowledged, though he
            The Evening News     567

 hated destroying an engine which, in other circumstances, could be repaired.
  I Exactly as O'Hara predicted, the engine ran for a few minutes then, with
  the horn blaring and a smell of burning, it stopped and would not start
  again. The boat returned to its slower speed and Partridge anxiously
  checked his watch.
  Their speed, as far as could be judged, had been reduced by half. The
  remainder of their river journey, instead of taking an hour, would take
  two.
  In fact, it took two and a quarter hours and now, at 6:50 A.M., their
  landing point was coming into sight. Partridge and Fernindez had identified
  it on the large-scale map, also from signs of previous use-soda cans and
  other debris littering the shore. Now they would have to cover in an hour
  the three miles of difficult jungle trail to Sion airstrip. This was far
  less time than they had anticipated. Could they do it?
  "We have to do it," Partridge said, explaining their problem to Jessica and
  Nicky. "It may be exhausting, but there's no time to rest, and if we have
  to, we'll help each other. Ferndndez will lead. I'll be in the rear."
  Minutes later the boat keel scraped on a sandy beach and they walked ashore
  through shallow water. An opening in what was otherwise a solid jungle wall
  was immediately ahead.
  If they had had more time, Partridge would have attempted to hide the boat
  or push it toward midstream and let it drift. As it was, they left it on
  the beach.
  Then, about to enter the jungle, Fernindez halted, motioning everyone to
  silence. Cocking his head to one side, he stood listening in the still
  morning air. He was more familiar with the jungle than the others, his
  hearing more finely attuned to its sounds. He asked Partridge softly, "Do
  you hear?"
  Listening, Partridge thought he could hear a distant murmuring sound from
  the direction they had come, but wasn't sure. He asked, "What is it?"
  "Another boat," Fernfindez answered. "Still a good distance away, but
  coming fast."
  Without further delay they moved into the jungle.
 568        ARTHUR HAILEY

  The trail was not nearly as difficult to follow as that from the highway
  landing point to Nueva Esperanza which Partridge and the others in the
  rescue team had traversed three days earlier. It was obvious that the
  trail they were on was used more frequently, because it was only slightly
  overgrown and not at any point impassable, as the other had been.
  Just the same, it was treacherous underfoot. Uneven ground, protruding
  roots and soft patches where a foot could sink into mud or water were
  continual hazards.
  "Watch very carefully where you step," FernAndez warned from in front
  where he was setting a fast, forced pace.
  Partridge echoed, trying to be flippant and keep spirits high, "We don't
  want to have to carry anyone. I'm sweating enough."
  And so they all were. As during the other jungle trek, the heat was
  sweltering and steamy and would get hotter as the day advanced. The
  insects, too, were active.
  The uppermost question in Partridge's mind was: How long could Jessica
  and Nicky last under this grueling pressure? After a while he decided
  Jessica would make it; she had determination and also, apparently, the
  stamina. Nicky, though, showed signs of flagging.
  At the beginning Nicky hung back, clearly wanting to be close to
  Partridge, as he had earlier. But Partridge insisted that the boy and
  Jessica be up forward, immediately behind Fernindez. "We'll be together
  later, Nicky," he said. "Right now I want you with your mother." With
  obvious reluctance, Nicky had complied.
  Assuming the boat they had heard was carrying their pursuers, Partridge
  knew an assault would come from behind. If and when that happened, he
  would do his best to fight off the attack while the others continued on.
  He had already checked the Kalashnikov rifle he was carrying over his
  shoulder and had the two spare magazines in a pocket where he could get
  to them easily.
  Again Partridge checked his watch: 7:35 A.m. They had been on the trail
  almost forty minutes. Remembering the eight
            The Evening News     569

 o'clock rendezvous with AeroLibertad, he hoped they had covered three
 quarters of the way.
  Moments later they were forced to stop.
  Considered afterward, it seemed ironic that Ferndndez, who warned the
  others about stepping carefully, should himself misstep and fall heavily,
  his foot trapped in a muddy mess of roots. As Partridge hurried toward him,
  Minh was already holding Ferndndez while O'Hara struggled to free the foot;
  at the same time Ferndndez was grimacing with pain.
  "I appear to have done some damage," he told Partridge. "I am sorry. I have
  let you down."
  When the foot was free, Fernindez found it impossible to walk without
  excruciating pain. Clearly his ankle was broken or very badly sprained.
  "That's not true; you've never let us down," Partridge said. "You've been
  our guide and good companion and we'll carry you. We need to make some kind
  of litter."
  Fernindez shook his head. "Even if possible, there is not time. I have not
  spoken of it, Harry, but I have heard sounds behind us. They are following,
  and not far away. You must go on, and leave me."
  Jessica had joined them. She told Partridge, "We can't leave him here."
  "One of us can take you on his back," O'Hara said. "I'll try it.-
  .In this heat?" Ferndndez was impatient. "You would not last a hundred
  yards and it would slow all of you."
  About to add his own protest, Partridge knew it would be an exercise in
  futility. FernAndez was right; there could be no other choice than leaving
  him. But he added, "If there's help at the airstrip and it can be done,
  we'll come back for you."
  "Do not waste more time, Harry. I need to say some things quickly."
  Fernindez was sitting beside the trail, his back against a tree; the brush
  was too thick to move him farther in. Partridge knelt beside him. Jessica
  joined them.
  "I have a wife and four children," FernAndez said. "I would like to think
  someone will take care of them."
  "You work for CBA," Partridge said, "and CBA will do it.
 570        ARTHUR HAILEY

 I give you my solemn word, an official promise. The children's
 education-everything."
  Fern4ndez nodded, then motioned to an M-16 rifle he had been carrying and
  which lay beside him. "You had better take this. You may need it as well
  as what you have. But I do not intend to be taken alive. I would like a
  pistol."
  Partridge gave him the nine-millimeter Browning, first slipping off the
  silencer.
  "Oh, Fernandez!" Jessica's voice was choked, her eyes filled with tears.
  "Nicky and I owe you so much." She leaned forward and kissed him on the
  forehead.
  "Then go!" Femfindez urged her. "Do not squander more time and lose what
  we have won!"
  As Jessica rose, Partridge leaned forward, held Fernafidez tightly and
  kissed him on both cheeks. Behind him Minh and O'Hara waited to give a
  farewell hug.
  Rising, Partridge moved forward. He did not look back.

  The moment Miguel saw a boat beached at the entrance to the jungle trail,
  then recognized it as from Nueva Esperanza, he was glad he had made the
  decision to join the Sion airstrip sortie.
  He was even more pleased when Ram6n, leaping quickly from their own boat
  as it nudged into shore, ran to the other boat and announced, "Un motor
  estd caliente, el otro friofundido. "
  The hot engine meant their quarry had not been in the jungle very long.
  The cold, burned-out engine told them the other boat's speed had been
  reduced, its occupants delayed in getting here.
  As well as Miguel, the Sendero group comprised seven wellarmed men.
  Speaking in Spanish, he told them, "The bourgeois scum cannot be far
  ahead. We'll catch and punish them. Let us move like the wrath of
  Guzmin!"
  There was a ragged cheer as they filed quickly into the jungle.
            The Evening News     571

  "We're a few minutes early," Rita Abrams told the Cheyenne 11 pilot,
  Oswaldo Zileri, as they approached the Sion airstrip-first point of call
  on their aerial itinerary. A moment ago she had checked her Nvatch: 7:55.
  "We'll circle and watch," he said. "In any case, this is the least likely
  place for your friends to be."
  As they had yesterday, all four in the plane-Rita, Crawford Sloane, Zileri
  and the copilot, Felipe-peered down at the quilt of green beneath them.
  They were looking for any sign of movement, particularly around the short,
  tree-lined airstrip, which was hard to see until they were directly
  overhead. Again, like yesterday, there was no visible activity of any kind.

  Along the jungle trail, Nicky was finding it increasingly difficult to
  maintain the punishing pace. Jessica and Minh were helping him, each
  grabbing an arm and partially pulling him, partially lifting him over
  difficult patches as they continued forward. Eventually Nicky might have
  to be carried, but for the moment the others husbanded their remaining
  strength.
  It had been about ten minutes since they left FernAndez. Ken O'Hara was now
  up ahead, leading. Partridge had dropped back to his position in the rear,
  from where he occasionally glanced backward. So far there had been no sign
  of movement.
  Above their heads, the trees appeared to be thinning, more daylight coming
  through their branches; also the trail had widened. It was a sign,
  Partridge hoped, that they were nearing the airstrip. At one point lie
  thought he heard the distant sound of an airplane, but could not be sure.
  Again he checked his watch: nearly 7:55.
  At that moment, from somewhere behind, came a short, sharp
  crack-unmistakably the sound of a single shot. It had to be Ferridndez,
  Partridge reasoned. And even in using the Browning, from which Partridge
  had deliberately removed the silencer, the zealous stringer-fixer provided
  a final service-a warning that pursuit was close. As if in confirmation,
  several other shots followed.
  Perhaps the pursuers, having seen Ferndndez-presumably
 572        ARIHUR HAILEY

 dead-thought they saw others ahead and had fired at random. Then, for
 whatever reason, the firing ceased.
  Partridge himself was near exhaustion. Through the past fifty hours, with
  scarcely any sleep, he had pushed himself to the limit. Now he was having
  trouble keeping his attention focused.
  In one of those moments, mentally meandering, he decided that what he
  wanted most was relief from action . . . When this adventure ended he
  would resume the vacation he had barely started and simply disappear, be
  unavailable . . . And wherever he went, perhaps he should take Vivien-the
  only woman left to him whose loving was available . . . Jessica and Gemma
  had been the past; Vivien could be the future. Perhaps, until now, he had
  treated her unfairly, should consider marriage after all . . . It was not
  too late . . . He knew it was something Vivien would like . . .
  With an effort, he snapped back to the present,
  Suddenly they had emerged from the jungle. The airstrip was in view!
  Overhead an airplane was circling-it was a Cheyenne! Ken O'Hara-reliable
  to the end, Partridge thoughtwas loading a green-banded cartridge into
  the flare gun he had carried all this way. Green for Land normally,
  everything is .clear.
  With equal suddenness, from behind, came the sound of two more shots,
  this time much closer.
  "Send up a red flare, not a green!" Partridge yelled at O'Hara. "And do
  it fast!"
  Red for Land as quickly as possible, we are in danger!

  It was several minutes past eight o'clock. In the Cheyenne 11 above Sion
  airstrip, Zileri turned his head toward Rita and Sloane. He told them,
  "Nothing's happening here. We'll go to the other two points."
  The plane turned away. As it did, Crawford Sloane called out, "Hold it!
  I think I saw something!"
  Zileri aborted the turn and swung the airplane back. He asked, "WherO"
  "Somewhere down there." Sloane pointed. "I'm not sure of
            rhe Evening News     573

 the exact spot. It was just for a moment . . . I thought His voice
 mirrored his own uncertainty.
  Zileri flew the plane in a circle. Again they scrutinized as much of the
  ground as they could. When the circle was complete the pilot said, "I
  don't see a thing. I think we should go on.,,
  At that moment, a red flare curled upward from the ground.

  O'Hara fired a second red flare.
  "That'll do. They've seen us," Partridge said. The airplane had already
  turned toward them. What he needed to know now was which way the plane
  would land. Then he would pick a position to fight off the pursuers and
  occupy it while the others boarded first.
  The answer quickly became evident. The Cheyenne 11 was in a tight
  descending turn, losing height fast, and would come in over their heads.
  After that, it would land facing away from the jungle trail from where
  the shooting had been coming.
  Looking back, Partridge could still see no one in sight, despite the
  shots. He could only guess the reason for shooting. Perhaps someone,
  while advancing, was firing blindly, hoping for a lucky hit.
  He told O'Hara, "Get Jessica and Nicky down by the landing strip fast,
  and stay with them! When the plane gets to the far end, they'll swing
  around and taxi back. Go forward to meet the airplane, and all of you get
  aboard. Did you hear that, Minh?"
  "I heard." Minh, with an eye glued to his camera, was imperturbably
  taking pictures, as he had at various moments throughout the journey.
  Partridge decided not to worry anymore about Minh. He would take care of
  himself.
 Jessica asked anxiously, "What about you, Harry?"
  He told her, "I'm going to cover you by firing down the trail. As soon
  as you're aboard I'll join you. Now get going!"
  O'Hara put an arm around Jessica, who was holding Nicky's good hand, and
  hurried them away.
 Even as they moved, looking back toward the jungle Par- 574        ARTHUR BAILEY

 tridge saw several figures now in sight, advancing on the airstrip, guns
 pointed forward.
  Partridge dropped behind a small hillock nearby. Lying on his belly, he
  rested the Kalashnikov in front of him, the sights of the automatic rifle
  directed at the moving figures. He squeezed the trigger, and amid a burst
  of fire saw one of the figures fall, the others dive for cover. At the
  same time he heard the Cheyenne 11 swoop in low above his head. Though
  he did not turn to watch, he knew it should be landing now.

  "There they are!" Crawford Sloane shouted, near-hysterical with
  excitement. "I see them! It's Jessica and Nicky!" The airplane was still
  on its landing run, traveling fast on an uneven dirt surface.
  The end of the short strip was looming nearer, Zileri braking hard. As
  the landing run ended, employing brakes and one engine, the pilot swung
  the airplane around to face the way they had come. Then, using both
  engines for acceleration, he taxied back down the airstrip, moving fast
  toward its opposite end.
  The Cheyenne II stopped at the point where Jessica, Nicky and O'Hara were
  waiting. The copilot, Felipe, had already left his seat and moved aft.
  From inside the fuselage he released and lowered an air-stair door.
  Nicky first, then Jessica and O'Hara climbed aboard, outstretched hands,
  including Sloane's, helping pull them in. Minh appeared and scrambled in
  behind the others.
  As Sloane, Jessica and Nicky emotionally hugged each other, O'Hara called
  out breathlessly, "Harry's up ahead. We have to get him. He's holding off
  the terrorists."
  "I see him," Zileri said. "Hold on!" He opened the throttles again and
  the airplane shot forward, taxiing fast.
  At the runway's far end he turned the airplane around once more. It was
  now facing the way it landed, ready for takeoff but with the passenger
  door still open. Gunfire could be heard through the doorway.
            The Evening News     575

  "Your friend will have to make a run for it." Zileri's voice was urgent.
  "I want to get the hell out of here."
  "He will," Minh said. "He's seen us and he'll come."

  Partridge had both seen and heard the airplane. Glancing over his
  shoulder, he knew it was as close to him as it could come. There was
  about a hundred yards between him and the plane. He would make it at a
  fast run, keeping low. First though, he had to spray fire back into the
  jungle trail to deter any further advance by the Sendero force. In the
  past few minutes he had seen several more figures appear, had fired and
  seen another fall. The others were now hugging the shelter of the trees.
  A burst of fire would hold them there, out of sight, long enough for him
  to reach the plane.
  He had just put a fresh magazine into the Kalashnikov. Squeezing the
  trigger, then holding it, he poured a deadly hail of bullets along both
  sides of the jungle path. Since the firing began he had felt his old
  visceral zest for battle stir . . . that sensuous tbrill; it set
  adrenaline running, juices flowing . . . an illogical, crazy addiction
  to the sights and sounds of war . . .
  When the magazine had emptied, he dropped the rifle, sprang to his feet
  and ran, doubling over to stay low. The airplane was ahead. He knew he'd
  make it!
  Partridge was a third of the way to the plane when a bullet struck his
  leg. He fell instantly. It was all so fast, it took him several seconds
  to grasp what had happened.
  The bullet had impacted at the back of his right knee, shattering the
  joint. He could go no farther. A terrible pain, more pain than he had
  ever believed possible, swept over him. He knew, at that moment, he would
  never reach the airplane. He knew, too, that there was no time left. The
  plane must go. And he must do what Ferndndez had done, barely half an
  hour earlier.
  Summoning a final surge of strength, he raised himself, waving the
  Cheyenne forward. All that mattered now was that his intention should be
  clear.
 576        ARTHUR BAILEY

  Minh was in the airplane doorway, shooting pictures. He had Partridge in
  his zoom lens-a closeup---and had captured the moment when the bullet hit.
  The copilot, Felipe, was beside Minh.
  Felipe called in, "He's hit! I think badly. He's waving for us to go."
  Inside the airplane, Sloane pushed toward the door. "We have to get him!"
  Jessica cried out, "Yes! Oh yes!"
  Nicky echoed, "Please don't go without Harry!"
  It was Minh, the realist about war, who said, "You can't get him. There
  isn't time."
  Minh had seen through his lens the advancing Sendero force. Several of its
  members had reached the airstrip perimeter, were running forward and firing
  their guns. Just then, several bullets hit the plane.
  "I'm leaving," Zileri said. He had already lowered flaps for takeoff, now
  he pushed the throttles forward. Minh, plus camera, tumbled in. Felipe
  retracted and secured the air-stair door.
  As airspeed built, Zileri eased back on the control column. The Cheyenne
  11 left the airstrip and climbed.
  Jessica and Nicky were holding each other, weeping. Sloane, his eyes
  partially closed, was shaking his head slowly, as if not believing what he
  had just seen.
  Minh held his camera against a window, taking final shots of the scene
  below.

  On the ground, Partridge saw the Cheyenne II go.
  And saw something else. Through a haze of pain, in the doorway of the
  departing airplane he saw a smiling figure in Alitalia uniform. She was
  waving.
  Partridge's tears, long held back, began to flow. Then more bullets hit him
  and he died.
            The Evening News     577

                20

 Looking down at the body of Harry Partridge, Miguel vowed that never again
 would he let something like today's fiasco happen.
  In the first stage of the kidnap enterprise, which was complex and
  demanding, he had been fabulously successful. In this second stage, which
  should have been easy and uncomplicated, he had failed abysmally.
  The lesson was clear: Nothing was easy and uncomplicated. He should have
  learned it long ago.
  He would remember it, however, from this moment on.
  So what came next?
  First, he must leave Peru. His life would be forfeit if he stayed;
  Sendero Luminoso would see to that.
  He could not even go back to Nueva Esperanza.
  Fortunately, he had no reason to. Before departure, foreseeing the
  possibility of what actually occurred, he had stowed all of his
  cash-including most of the fifty thousand dollars he collected from Jos~
  Antonio Salaverry during his final visit to the United Nations-into a
  money belt he was wearing. He could feel it now. Uncomfortable but
  reassuring.
  The money was ample to get him out of Peru and into Colombia.
  What he intended now was to slip away into the jungle. There was an
  airstrip twenty-five kilometers away-not either of the two that had been
  targeted today-where drug-traffic planes flown by Colombian pilots came
  and went frequently. He knew he could buy passage to Colombia and, once
  there, would be safe.
  If anyone in the group from Nueva Esperanza attempted to stop him, he
  would kill him. But Miguel doubted if anyone would. Of the seven who had
  accompanied him here, only four
 578        ARTHUR HAILEY

 were still alive; Ram6n and two others had been killed by this gringo who
 lay at his feet-identity unknown, though a good marksman.
  Even back in Colombia, his reputation would suffer a little from the Nueva
  Esperanza debacle, but that would not last. And unlike Sendero Luminoso,
  the Colombian drug cartels were not fanatical. Ruthless, yes, but otherwise
  pragmatic and businesslike. Miguel had eminently salable talents as an
  anarchist-terrorist. The cartels had need of him.
  Miguel had recently learned that a long-term program was under way to
  convert a series of small and medium-sized countries to the same
  drug-cartel-dominated status as Colombia. He was certain the project would
  present an opportunity for his special skills.
  As a functioning democracy Colombia was finished. Outwardly, some showcase
  trappings remained, but even those were disappearing as killings ordered by
  the cartels' powerful billionaire bosses eliminated the diminishing
  minority who believed in bygone ways.
  What was needed to transform other countries into replicas of Colombia was
  corruption at or near the top of governments, corruption making it possible
  for drug cartels to move in and operate. Next, insidiously and quietly, the
  cartels would become stronger than the governments-after which, as in Co-
  lombia, there was never any turning back.
  Four countries were mentioned nowadays as potential targets to be
  "Colombia-ized." They were Bolivia, El Salvador, Guatemala and Jamaica.
  Later, others could be added to the list.
  With his unique experience and ability to survive, Miguel decided, he was
  likely to be busy for a long time ahead.
            The Evening News     579

                21

 Aboard the Cheyenne 11, several minutes passed before anyone felt capable
 of speech. Crawford Sloane was holding Jessica and Nicky close to him, the
 three oblivious to all else.
  At length Sloane raised his head and asked Minh Van Canh, "About Harry
  . . . did you see anything more?"
  Minh nodded sadly. "I was focused on him. He was hit again, several
  times. There isn't any doubt."
  Sloane sighed. "He was the best . . ."
  Minh corrected him, his voice unusually strong. "The very best. As a
  correspondent. As a human being. I've seen a good many, and there wasn't
  anyone I knew who came close to Harry in all those years." The words were
  spoken almost as a challenge. Minh had known Sloane and Partridge for an
  equal time.
  If it was a challenge, Sloane did not contest it. He said simply, "I
  agree."
  Jessica and Nicky were listening, both busy with their thoughts.
  It was Rita, the professional with responsibilities, who asked Minh, "May
  I see some of your pictures?" She knew that despite Harry's death, she
  must put a broadcast together in Lima, barely an hour away.
  She also knew they bad a world exclusive story.
  Minh did some rewinding, then passed his Betacam to Rita. Squinting
  through the viewfinder, she watched videotape shots: as usual, Minh had
  captured the essentials of everything. The pictures were superb. Some
  final shots--of Harry wounded, then falling to the fatal bullets-were
  stark and moving. As she handed the camera back, Rita's eyes were moist
  but she wiped them with the back of her hand, knowing there was no time
 580        ARTHUR HAILEY

 now either to mourn Harry or to cry. Both would come later, probably when
 she was alone tonight.
  Sloane asked, "Did Harry have anybody-a girlfriend? I know he never
  remarried after Gemma."
  "There was-is someone," Rita said. "Her name is Vivien. She's a nurse and
  lives in a place called Port Credit; that's outside Toronto."
  "We should call. I'll talk to her if you like."
  "Yes, I would like," Rita said. "And when you do, tell her Harry made a
  will before leaving and I have it. He left everything to her. Vivien
  doesn't know it, but she's a millionaire now. It seems Harry salted money
  away in tax havens all over the world. Along with the will, he left a
  list."
  Minh, unnoticed while they were talking, had been taking video shots of
  Jessica and Nicky. Now, Rita saw, the camera was directed at Nicky's
  bandaged right hand. It reminded her of something she had brought from
  Lima and, reaching into a briefcase, she produced a Teletype message
  received through Entel Peru.
  "Before Harry left," Rita told the others, "he asked me to send a cable
  to one of his friends-a surgeon in Oakland, California. Harry explained
  that his friend is among the world's ranking experts on injured hands.
  The cable asked questions about Nicholas. This is the reply."
  She passed the typed sheet to Sloane who read it aloud.

   RETEL. HAVE READ INFO YOU SENT ALSO DETAILS IN NEWSPAPERS ABOUT YOUR
   YOUNG FRIEND'S HAND. PROSTHESES NOT RECOMMENDED. THEY WILL NOT FUNCTION
   OR HELP HIM PLAY PIANO, MAY EVEN GET IN WAY. INSTEAD HE SHOULD AND CAN
   LEARN TO ROTATE HAND DOWNWARD UNTIL WHAT REMAINS OF INDEX AND LITTLE
   FINGERS COMES IN CONTACT WITH PIANO KEYS. INCIDENTALLY IN A WAY HE'S
   LUCKY BECAUSE FOREGOING WOULD NOT BE POSSIBLE IF DIFFERENT FINGERS LOST.
   APPLIES ONLY TO THOSE TWO.
   LEARNING TO ROTATE HAND WILL TAKE PATIENCE,
 PERSEVERANCE. BUT IF ENTHUSIASTIC CAN BE DONE. BE-            The Evening News     581

 ING YOUNG HELPS. HAVE WOMAN PATIENT WHO LOST SAME FINGERS NOW PLAYS
 PIANO. WOULD BE GLAD TO BRING TWO TOGETHER IF YOU WISH.
   TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF HARRY. WARMEST REGARDS.
                      JACK TUPPER, M.D.

  There was a silence, then Nicky said, "May I look at that, Dad?" Sloane
  passed the sheet across.
  "Don't lose that!" Jessica cautioned Nicky. "It will give you something
  to remember Harry by." The instinctive, close companionship of Harry and
  Nicky, she thought, had been brief yet beautiful while it lasted.
  She remembered Nicky's early dispirited words to Harry at Nueva
  Esperanza: "They killed my granddad and cut off two of myfingers, so I
  can't play the piano anymore. "Obviously Nicky would never be a concert
  pianist, which he had dreamed of. But he would play the piano and fulfill
  his joy in music in other ways.
  Nicky was reading the cable, holding it in his left hand while the
  beginning of a smile appeared on his face. He was turning his bandaged
  right hand in a rolling motion.
  "I guess there will never be a time," Crawford Sloane said, "when there
  isn't something we'll have reason to thank Harry for.-
  "Ferndndez, too," Jessica reminded him. They had already spoken of the
  stringer-fixer's sacrifice and presumed death. Now she told Crawford and
  Rita of the promise Harry made before leaving Fernindez beside the jungle
  trail.
  Fernfindez had spoken of his wife and four children, asking if someone
  would take care of them, and Harry pledged, "You work for CBA, and CBA
  will do it. I give you my solemn word, an official promise. The
  children's education-everything. "
  "If Harry said that," Sloane said, "he was speaking for CBA and it's
  binding like a legal document. When we get back I'll see it's put into
  effect."
  "There's one snag," Rita pointed out. "It happened after Harry was fired,
  even though he didn't know it."
 582        ARTHUR HAILEY

  Minh, who overheard, looked startled-a reminder that only a few people knew
  about the Chippingham letter of dismissal.
  "It makes no difference," Sloane said. "Harry's promise will be honored."
  "But it does bring up something we have to decide," Rita pointed out. "Are
  we going to refer to Harry's firing in what we report today?"
  "No," Sloane said emphatically. "That's our internal dirty linen. We won't
  wash it in public."
  But it will come out, Rita thought. In the end, it always does.
  Crawf still didn't know about the "You-son-of-a-bitch!" memo she had faxed
  to Les Chippingham via the Horseshoe. Probably within a week that would
  surface in the Times or Washington Post. And if not there, then later in
  the Columbia Journalism Review or Washington Journalism Review. Well, let
  it happen!
  Rita was reminded that, as a result of the memo, she was probably out of
  a job. Among other things she had signed herself "ex-producer." Well,
  however it all came out, she would see this present assignment through to
  its end.
  Jessica spoke up. "There's something that's been bothering me. It's about
  the airstrip we were at, the last one."
  "Sion," Rita prompted.
  Jessica nodded. "I had the feeling, on the jungle trail and at the
  airstrip, that I'd been there before. I think it's where we were brought
  first, when we all came back from unconsciousness. Though I didn't know it
  was an airstrip then. And there's something else."
  "Go on," Rita said. She had reached for a pad and was making notes.
  "There was a man in a hut we were held in. I don't know who or what he was,
  though I'm sure he was American. I pleaded with him to help us, but he
  didn't. I have this, though."
  The day before, Jessica had retrieved from beneath the mattress in her cell
  the drawing she had made. Since then she had carried it, folded, in her
  brassiere. She handed it to Rita.
  The drawing was of the Learjet pilot, Denis Underhill.
            The Evening News     583

  "Tonight," Rita said, "we'll run this on the National Evening News and ask
  if anyone can identify him. With twenty million people watching, there
  should be someone."
  The Cheyenne II droned on, still climbing, gaining altitude to pass over
  the peaks of the Andes Cordillera Range, after which they would descend
  toward sea level and Lima. The time, Rita noted, was a few minutes past 9
  A.m. The flight would take another forty minutes.
  What was necessary now, she realized, was to make a firm plan for the
  remainder of the day, in conjunction with Crawf. She'had already done some
  advance work, having anticipated most, though not all, of what had
  happened.
  The dramatic story of the rescue was, at this moment, exclusively CBA's.
  Therefore, until New York first-feed broadcast time, which was 5:30 P.m.
  in Peru, Jessica and Nicky must be kept somewhere out of sight, unavailable
  to the remainder of the media. Crawf, she was sure, would see the need for
  that.
  It meant that Jessica and Nicky could not yet be taken to Cesar's Hotel or
  Entel Peru, both of which were swarming with reporters and TV crews. The
  same applied to other hotels in downtown Lima.
  So what Rita had arranged was for them to go to the home of the
  AeroLibertad owner-pilot, Oswaldo Zileri, who lived on the outskirts of
  Miraflores. They could remain there until 5:30, after which their being
  seen by others in press or television would no longer matter. In fact, it
  was an ordeal they would eventually have to face.
  In the meantime, working with Bob Watson, the TV-video editor, Rita would
  put a report together for the National Evening News that night. It would
  be a long one and use most of Minh's best pictures---of the rescue, the
  death of Harry Partridge and the sad moment when Fernindez had been left
  beside the jungle trail.
  She wouldn't even ask New York for a specific amount of time. This was one
  occasion when she knew she could have whatever time was needed.
  Rita was certain, too, that the network would want a onehour news special
  in prime time tonight. Well, she had extra
 584        ARTHUR BAILEY

 ingredients for that. They included the videotape recording of Dolores, the
 drunken companion of the American ex-doctor Hartley Gossage, alias Baudelio,
 who so despicably used his medical skills to transport the three kidnap
 victims to Peru. Harry had put that together as a package, with his own com-
 mentary; it was ready to go.
  As to everything else, both for the evening news and later, Crawf would do
  the narration and standups. That might be difficult for him. He would need
  to speak of the deaths of his own father, Harry Partridge and Ferndndez,
  and of the mutilation of Nicky's hand. Crawf was sometimes emotional and
  might choke up. No matter, Rita thought. It would make the story more
  convincing, and Crawf would recover and go on. He was a professional
  newsperson, like Rita and the rest.
  One item of news, Rita realized, could not and should not be suppressed
  throughout the day. That was the fact that a rescue had occurred and Nicky
  and Jessica were safe.
  There must be a bulletin. When CBA News received it in New York, they would
  break instantly into network programming. Once more, CBA would be ahead of
  the competition.
  Again Rita checked her watch: 9:23. Another twenty minutes or so of flying.
  Allowing time to get from the air-port into Lima, the bulletin could be set
  for 10:30 A.m. They would send just a few pictures, transmitting "quick and
  dirty"-the way they had from Dallas-Fort Worth airport for the Airbus crash
  story she, Harry, Minh and Ken O'Hara had worked on less than a month ago.
  Was it really only that short a time? It seemed much longer -another world
  away.
  She would need satellite time for the 10:30 bulletin. Rita leaned forward
  and tapped Zileri on the shoulder. When he turned, she pointed to the
  aircraft radio. "Can you patch a phone call through? I want to call New
  York."
  "Sure can."
  She scribbled a number and passed it forward. In a surprisingly short time
  a voice on a speaker said, "CBA foreign desk."
  The copilot, Felipe, passed back a microphone. "Go ahead," he told her.
            Tire Evening News    585

  She held the transmit button down. "This is Rita Abrams. Get me a bird
  out of Lima for a bulletin at 10:30 Lima time. Make sure the Horseshoe
  knows."
  A voice replied laconically, "You got it. Will do."
  "Thanks. Goodbye." She handed the microphone back.
  A script would be needed for the bulletin, also for later. Rita scribbled
  a few phrases, then decided Crawf would do the rest and find the right
  words. He always did. He would probably ad-lib in part. He was good at
  that too.
  In what was left of the flight, she and Crawf must work together.
  Unfortunately, it meant pulling him away from the arms of Jessica and
  Nicky. But he would accept the need and so would they. Like everyone else
  in the business, they all understood that the news came first.
  "Crawf," Rita said gently, "you and I have work to do. It's time we
  started."
